whithersoever he went.

18:7 And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of
Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.

18:8 Likewise from Tibhath, and from Chun, cities of Hadarezer,
brought David very much brass, wherewith Solomon made the brasen sea,
and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.

18:9 Now when Tou king of Hamath heard how David had smitten all the
host of Hadarezer king of Zobah; 18:10 He sent Hadoram his son to king
David, to enquire of his welfare, and to congratulate him, because he
had fought against Hadarezer, and smitten him; (for Hadarezer had war
with Tou;) and with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and
brass.

18:11 Them also king David dedicated unto the LORD, with the silver
and the gold that he brought from all these nations; from Edom, and
from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines,
and from Amalek.

18:12 Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah slew of the Edomites in the
valley of salt eighteen thousand.

18:13 And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became
David's servants. Thus the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went.

18:14 So David reigned over all Israel, and executed judgment and
justice among all his people.

18:15 And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat
the son of Ahilud, recorder.

18:16 And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar,
were the priests; and Shavsha was scribe; 18:17 And Benaiah the son of
Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of
David were chief about the king.

19:1 Now it came to pass after this, that Nahash the king of the
children of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his stead.

19:2 And David said, I will shew kindness unto Hanun the son of
Nahash, because his father shewed kindness to me. And David sent
messengers to comfort him concerning his father. So the servants of
David came into the land of the children of Ammon to Hanun, to comfort
him.

19:3 But the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, Thinkest
thou that David doth honour thy father, that he hath sent comforters
unto thee?  are not his servants come unto thee for to search, and to
overthrow, and to spy out the land?  19:4 Wherefore Hanun took David's
servants, and shaved them, and cut off their garments in the midst
hard by their buttocks, and sent them away.

19:5 Then there went certain, and told David how the men were served.
And he sent to meet them: for the men were greatly ashamed. And the
king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be grown, and then
return.

19:6 And when the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves
odious to David, Hanun and the children of Ammon sent a thousand
talents of silver to hire them chariots and horsemen out of
Mesopotamia, and out of Syriamaachah, and out of Zobah.

19:7 So they hired thirty and two thousand chariots, and the king of
Maachah and his people; who came and pitched before Medeba. And the
children of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities, and
came to battle.

19:8 And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the
mighty men.

19:9 And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array
before the gate of the city: and the kings that were come were by
themselves in the field.

19:10 Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and
behind, he chose out of all the choice of Israel, and put them in
array against the Syrians.

19:11 And the rest of the people he delivered unto the hand of Abishai
his brother, and they set themselves in array against the children of
Ammon.

19:12 And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou
shalt help me: but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee,
then I will help thee.

19:13 Be of good courage, and let us behave ourselves valiantly for
our people, and for the cities of our God: and let the LORD do that
which is good in his sight.

19:14 So Joab and the people that were with him drew nigh before the
Syrians unto the battle; and they fled before him.

19:15 And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled,
they likewise fled before Abishai his brother, and entered into the
city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem.

19:16 And when the Syrians saw that they were put to the worse before
Israel, they sent messengers, and drew forth the Syrians that were
beyond the river: and Shophach the captain of the host of Hadarezer
went before them.

19:17 And it was told David; and he gathered all Israel, and passed
over Jordan, and came upon them, and set the battle in array against
them. So when David had put the battle in array against the Syrians,
they fought with him.

19:18 But the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew of the
Syrians seven thousand men which fought in chariots, and forty
thousand footmen, and killed Shophach the captain of the host.

19:19 And when the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were put to the
worse before Israel, they made peace with David, and became his
servants: neither would the Syrians help the children of Ammon any
more.

20:1 And it came to pass, that after the year was expired, at the time
that kings go out to battle, Joab led forth the power of the army, and
wasted the country of the children of Ammon, and came and besieged
Rabbah. But David tarried at Jerusalem. And Joab smote Rabbah, and
destroyed it.

20:2 And David took the crown of their king from off his head, and
found it to weigh a talent of gold, and there were precious stones in
it; and it was set upon David's head: and he brought also exceeding
much spoil out of the city.

20:3 And he brought out the people that were in it, and cut them with
saws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes. Even so dealt David
with all the cities of the children of Ammon. And David and all the
people returned to Jerusalem.

20:4 And it came to pass after this, that there arose war at Gezer
with the Philistines; at which time Sibbechai the Hushathite slew
Sippai, that was of the children of the giant: and they were subdued.

20:5 And there was war again with the Philistines; and Elhanan the son
of Jair slew Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, whose spear
staff was like a weaver's beam.

20:6 And yet again there was war at Gath, where was a man of great
stature, whose fingers and toes were four and twenty, six on each
hand, and six on each foot and he also was the son of the giant.

20:7 But when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea David's
brother slew him.

20:8 These were born unto the giant in Gath; and they fell by the hand
of David, and by the hand of his servants.

21:1 And Satan stood up against Israel, and provoked David to number
Israel.

21:2 And David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go,
number Israel from Beersheba even to Dan; and bring the number of them
to me, that I may know it.

21:3 And Joab answered, The LORD make his people an hundred times so
many more as they be: but, my lord the king, are they not all my
lord's servants?  why then doth my lord require this thing? why will
he be a cause of trespass to Israel?  21:4 Nevertheless the king's
word prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Joab departed, and went
throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem.

21:5 And Joab gave the sum of the number of the people unto David. And
all they of Israel were a thousand thousand and an hundred thousand
men that drew sword: and Judah was four hundred threescore and ten
thousand men that drew sword.

21:6 But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them: for the king's
word was abominable to Joab.

21:7 And God was displeased with this thing; therefore he smote
Israel.

21:8 And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, because I have
done this thing: but now, I beseech thee, do away the iniquity of thy
servant; for I have done very foolishly.

21:9 And the LORD spake unto Gad, David's seer, saying, 21:10 Go and
tell David, saying, Thus saith the LORD, I offer thee three things:
choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee.

21:11 So Gad came to David, and said unto him, Thus saith the LORD,
Choose thee 21:12 Either three years' famine; or three months to be
destroyed before thy foes, while that the sword of thine enemies
overtaketh thee; or else three days the sword of the LORD, even the
pestilence, in the land, and the angel of the LORD destroying
throughout all the coasts of Israel. Now therefore advise thyself what
word I shall bring again to him that sent me.

21:13 And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let me fall now
into the hand of the LORD; for very great are his mercies: but let me
not fall into the hand of man.

21:14 So the LORD sent pestilence upon Israel: and there fell of
Israel seventy thousand men.

21:15 And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy it: and as he
was destroying, the LORD beheld, and he repented him of the evil, and
said to the angel that destroyed, It is enough, stay now thine hand.
And the angel of the LORD stood by the threshingfloor of Ornan the
Jebusite.

21:16 And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of the LORD
stand between the earth and the heaven, having a drawn sword in his
hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders of
Israel, who were clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces.

21:17 And David said unto God, Is it not I that commanded the people
to be numbered? even I it is that have sinned and done evil indeed;
but as for these sheep, what have they done? let thine hand, I pray
thee, O LORD my God, be on me, and on my father's house; but not on
thy people, that they should be plagued.

21:18 Then the angel of the LORD commanded Gad to say to David, that
David should go up, and set up an altar unto the LORD in the
threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite.

21:19 And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the
name of the LORD.

21:20 And Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and his four sons with
him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat.

21:21 And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went
out of the threshingfloor, and bowed himself to David with his face to
the ground.

21:22 Then David said to Ornan, Grant me the place of this
threshingfloor, that I may build an altar therein unto the LORD: thou
shalt grant it me for the full price: that the plague may be stayed
from the people.

21:23 And Ornan said unto David, Take it to thee, and let my lord the
king do that which is good in his eyes: lo, I give thee the oxen also
for burnt offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the
wheat for the meat offering; I give it all.

21:24 And king David said to Ornan, Nay; but I will verily buy it for
the full price: for I will not take that which is thine for the LORD,
nor offer burnt offerings without cost.

21:25 So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold
by weight.

21:26 And David built there an altar unto the LORD, and offered burnt
offerings and peace offerings, and called upon the LORD; and he
answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt offering.

21:27 And the LORD commanded the angel; and he put up his sword again
into the sheath thereof.

21:28 At that time when David saw that the LORD had answered him in
the threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there.

21:29 For the tabernacle of the LORD, which Moses made in the
wilderness, and the altar of the burnt offering, were at that season
in the high place at Gibeon.

21:30 But David could not go before it to enquire of God: for he was
afraid because of the sword of the angel of the LORD.

22:1 Then David said, This is the house of the LORD God, and this is
the altar of the burnt offering for Israel.

22:2 And David commanded to gather together the strangers that were in
the land of Israel; and he set masons to hew wrought stones to build
the house of God.

22:3 And David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doors
of the gates, and for the joinings; and brass in abundance without
weight; 22:4 Also cedar trees in abundance: for the Zidonians and they
of Tyre brought much cedar wood to David.

22:5 And David said, Solomon my son is young and tender, and the house
that is to be builded for the LORD must be exceeding magnifical, of
fame and of glory throughout all countries: I will therefore now make
preparation for it. So David prepared abundantly before his death.

22:6 Then he called for Solomon his son, and charged him to build an
house for the LORD God of Israel.

22:7 And David said to Solomon, My son, as for me, it was in my mind
to build an house unto the name of the LORD my God: 22:8 But the word
of the LORD came to me, saying, Thou hast shed blood abundantly, and
hast made great wars: thou shalt not build an house unto my name,
because thou hast shed much blood upon the earth in my sight.

22:9 Behold, a son shall be born to thee, who shall be a man of rest;
and I will give him rest from all his enemies round about: for his
name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quietness unto Israel
in his days.

22:10 He shall build an house for my name; and he shall be my son, and
I will be his father; and I will establish the throne of his kingdom
over Israel for ever.

22:11 Now, my son, the LORD be with thee; and prosper thou, and build
the house of the LORD thy God, as he hath said of thee.

22:12 Only the LORD give thee wisdom and understanding, and give thee
charge concerning Israel, that thou mayest keep the law of the LORD
thy God.

22:13 Then shalt thou prosper, if thou takest heed to fulfil the
statutes and judgments which the LORD charged Moses with concerning
Israel: be strong, and of good courage; dread not, nor be dismayed.

22:14 Now, behold, in my trouble I have prepared for the house of the
LORD an hundred thousand talents of gold, and a thousand thousand
talents of silver; and of brass and iron without weight; for it is in
abundance: timber also and stone have I prepared; and thou mayest add
thereto.

22:15 Moreover there are workmen with thee in abundance, hewers and
workers of stone and timber, and all manner of cunning men for every
manner of work.

22:16 Of the gold, the silver, and the brass, and the iron, there is
no number. Arise therefore, and be doing, and the LORD be with thee.

22:17 David also commanded all the princes of Israel to help Solomon
his son, saying, 22:18 Is not the LORD your God with you? and hath he
not given you rest on every side? for he hath given the inhabitants of
the land into mine hand; and the land is subdued before the LORD, and
before his people.

22:19 Now set your heart and your soul to seek the LORD your God;
arise therefore, and build ye the sanctuary of the LORD God, to bring
the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and the holy vessels of God, into
the house that is to be built to the name of the LORD.

23:1 So when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son
king over Israel.

23:2 And he gathered together all the princes of Israel, with the
priests and the Levites.

23:3 Now the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and
upward: and their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty and
eight thousand.

23:4 Of which, twenty and four thousand were to set forward the work
of the house of the LORD; and six thousand were officers and judges:
23:5 Moreover four thousand were porters; and four thousand praised
the LORD with the instruments which I made, said David, to praise
therewith.

23:6 And David divided them into courses among the sons of Levi,
namely, Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

23:7 Of the Gershonites were, Laadan, and Shimei.

23:8 The sons of Laadan; the chief was Jehiel, and Zetham, and Joel,
three.

23:9 The sons of Shimei; Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran, three.
These were the chief of the fathers of Laadan.

23:10 And the sons of Shimei were, Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and
Beriah.

These four were the sons of Shimei.

23:11 And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second: but Jeush and
Beriah had not many sons; therefore they were in one reckoning,
according to their father's house.

23:12 The sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.

23:13 The sons of Amram; Aaron and Moses: and Aaron was separated,
that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons for
ever, to burn incense before the LORD, to minister unto him, and to
bless in his name for ever.

23:14 Now concerning Moses the man of God, his sons were named of the
tribe of Levi.

23:15 The sons of Moses were, Gershom, and Eliezer.

23:16 Of the sons of Gershom, Shebuel was the chief.

23:17 And the sons of Eliezer were, Rehabiah the chief. And Eliezer
had none other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.

23:18 Of the sons of Izhar; Shelomith the chief.

23:19 Of the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second,
Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.

23:20 Of the sons of Uzziel; Micah the first and Jesiah the second.

23:21 The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. The sons of Mahli;
Eleazar, and Kish.

23:22 And Eleazar died, and had no sons, but daughters: and their
brethren the sons of Kish took them.

23:23 The sons of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three.

23:24 These were the sons of Levi after the house of their fathers;
even the chief of the fathers, as they were counted by number of names
by their polls, that did the work for the service of the house of the
LORD, from the age of twenty years and upward.

23:25 For David said, The LORD God of Israel hath given rest unto his
people, that they may dwell in Jerusalem for ever: 23:26 And also unto
the Levites; they shall no more carry the tabernacle, nor any vessels
of it for the service thereof.

23:27 For by the last words of David the Levites were numbered from
twenty years old and above: 23:28 Because their office was to wait on
the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of the LORD, in the
courts, and in the chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things,
and the work of the service of the house of God; 23:29 Both for the
shewbread, and for the fine flour for meat offering, and for the
unleavened cakes, and for that which is baked in the pan, and for that
which is fried, and for all manner of measure and size; 23:30 And to
stand every morning to thank and praise the LORD, and likewise at
even: 23:31 And to offer all burnt sacrifices unto the LORD in the
sabbaths, in the new moons, and on the set feasts, by number,
according to the order commanded unto them, continually before the
LORD: 23:32 And that they should keep the charge of the tabernacle of
the congregation, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of
the sons of Aaron their brethren, in the service of the house of the
LORD.

24:1 Now these are the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of
Aaron; Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

24:2 But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and had no
children: therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest's office.

24:3 And David distributed them, both Zadok of the sons of Eleazar,
and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their offices in
their service.

24:4 And there were more chief men found of the sons of Eleazar than
of the sons of Ithamar, and thus were they divided. Among the sons of
Eleazar there were sixteen chief men of the house of their fathers,
and eight among the sons of Ithamar according to the house of their
fathers.

24:5 Thus were they divided by lot, one sort with another; for the
governors of the sanctuary, and governors of the house of God, were of
the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar.

24:6 And Shemaiah the son of Nethaneel the scribe, one of the Levites,
wrote them before the king, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and
Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and before the chief of the fathers of
the priests and Levites: one principal household being taken for
Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.

24:7 Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
24:8 The third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim, 24:9 The fifth to
Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin, 24:10 The seventh to Hakkoz, the
eighth to Abijah, 24:11 The ninth to Jeshuah, the tenth to Shecaniah,
24:12 The eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim, 24:13 The
thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab, 24:14 The fifteenth
to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer, 24:15 The seventeenth to Hezir, the
eighteenth to Aphses, 24:16 The nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth
to Jehezekel, 24:17 The one and twentieth to Jachin, the two and
twentieth to Gamul, 24:18 The three and twentieth to Delaiah, the four
and twentieth to Maaziah.

24:19 These were the orderings of them in their service to come into
the house of the LORD, according to their manner, under Aaron their
father, as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him.

24:20 And the rest of the sons of Levi were these: Of the sons of
Amram; Shubael: of the sons of Shubael; Jehdeiah.

24:21 Concerning Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, the first was
Isshiah.

24:22 Of the Izharites; Shelomoth: of the sons of Shelomoth; Jahath.

24:23 And the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second,
Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.

24:24 Of the sons of Uzziel; Michah: of the sons of Michah; Shamir.

24:25 The brother of Michah was Isshiah: of the sons of Isshiah;
Zechariah.

24:26 The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi: the sons of Jaaziah;
Beno.

24:27 The sons of Merari by Jaaziah; Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and
Ibri.

24:28 Of Mahli came Eleazar, who had no sons.

24:29 Concerning Kish: the son of Kish was Jerahmeel.

24:30 The sons also of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These
were the sons of the Levites after the house of their fathers.

24:31 These likewise cast lots over against their brethren the sons of
Aaron in the presence of David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and
the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites, even the
principal fathers over against their younger brethren.

25:1 Moreover David and the captains of the host separated to the
service of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who
should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals: and the
number of the workmen according to their service was: 25:2 Of the sons
of Asaph; Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asarelah, the sons of
Asaph under the hands of Asaph, which prophesied according to the
order of the king.

25:3 Of Jeduthun: the sons of Jeduthun; Gedaliah, and Zeri, and
Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their
father Jeduthun, who prophesied with a harp, to give thanks and to
praise the LORD.

25:4 Of Heman: the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel,
and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer,
Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth: 25:5 All these were the
sons of Heman the king's seer in the words of God, to lift up the
horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.

25:6 All these were under the hands of their father for song in the
house of the LORD, with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for the
service of the house of God, according to the king's order to Asaph,
Jeduthun, and Heman.

25:7 So the number of them, with their brethren that were instructed
in the songs of the LORD, even all that were cunning, was two hundred
fourscore and eight.

25:8 And they cast lots, ward against ward, as well the small as the
great, the teacher as the scholar.

25:9 Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph: the second to
Gedaliah, who with his brethren and sons were twelve: 25:10 The third
to Zaccur, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:11 The
fourth to Izri, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:12 The
fifth to Nethaniah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:13
The sixth to Bukkiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:
25:14 The seventh to Jesharelah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were
twelve: 25:15 The eighth to Jeshaiah, he, his sons, and his brethren,
were twelve: 25:16 The ninth to Mattaniah, he, his sons, and his
brethren, were twelve: 25:17 The tenth to Shimei, he, his sons, and
his brethren, were twelve: 25:18 The eleventh to Azareel, he, his
sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:19 The twelfth to Hashabiah,
he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:20 The thirteenth to
Shubael, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:21 The
fourteenth to Mattithiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:
25:22 The fifteenth to Jeremoth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were
twelve: 25:23 The sixteenth to Hananiah, he, his sons, and his
brethren, were twelve: 25:24 The seventeenth to Joshbekashah, he, his
sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:25 The eighteenth to Hanani,
he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:26 The nineteenth to
Mallothi, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:27 The
twentieth to Eliathah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:
25:28 The one and twentieth to Hothir, he, his sons, and his brethren,
were twelve: 25:29 The two and twentieth to Giddalti, he, his sons,
and his brethren, were twelve: 25:30 The three and twentieth to
Mahazioth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve: 25:31 The four
and twentieth to Romamtiezer, he, his sons, and his brethren, were
twelve.

26:1 Concerning the divisions of the porters: Of the Korhites was
Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.

26:2 And the sons of Meshelemiah were, Zechariah the firstborn,
Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth, 26:3 Elam
the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.

26:4 Moreover the sons of Obededom were, Shemaiah the firstborn,
Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and
Nethaneel the fifth.

26:5 Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth: for
God blessed him.

26:6 Also unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that ruled throughout
the house of their father: for they were mighty men of valour.

26:7 The sons of Shemaiah; Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad,
whose brethren were strong men, Elihu, and Semachiah.

26:8 All these of the sons of Obededom: they and their sons and their
brethren, able men for strength for the service, were threescore and
two of Obededom.

26:9 And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, strong men, eighteen.

26:10 Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons; Simri the
chief, (for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him
the chief;) 26:11 Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah
the fourth: all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen.

26:12 Among these were the divisions of the porters, even among the
chief men, having wards one against another, to minister in the house
of the LORD.

26:13 And they cast lots, as well the small as the great, according to
the house of their fathers, for every gate.

26:14 And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah his
son, a wise counsellor, they cast lots; and his lot came out
northward.

26:15 To Obededom southward; and to his sons the house of Asuppim.

26:16 To Shuppim and Hosah the lot came forth westward, with the gate
Shallecheth, by the causeway of the going up, ward against ward.

26:17 Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four
a day, and toward Asuppim two and two.

26:18 At Parbar westward, four at the causeway, and two at Parbar.

26:19 These are the divisions of the porters among the sons of Kore,
and among the sons of Merari.

26:20 And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house
of God, and over the treasures of the dedicated things.

26:21 As concerning the sons of Laadan; the sons of the Gershonite
Laadan, chief fathers, even of Laadan the Gershonite, were Jehieli.

26:22 The sons of Jehieli; Zetham, and Joel his brother, which were
over the treasures of the house of the LORD.

26:23 Of the Amramites, and the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the
Uzzielites: 26:24 And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses,
was ruler of the treasures.

26:25 And his brethren by Eliezer; Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his
son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son.

26:26 Which Shelomith and his brethren were over all the treasures of
the dedicated things, which David the king, and the chief fathers, the
captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the host,
had dedicated.

26:27 Out of the spoils won in battles did they dedicate to maintain
the house of the LORD.

26:28 And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and
Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated; and
whosoever had dedicated any thing, it was under the hand of Shelomith,
and of his brethren.

26:29 Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward
business over Israel, for officers and judges.

26:30 And of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, men of
valour, a thousand and seven hundred, were officers among them of
Israel on this side Jordan westward in all the business of the LORD,
and in the service of the king.

26:31 Among the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even among the
Hebronites, according to the generations of his fathers. In the
fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there
were found among them mighty men of valour at Jazer of Gilead.

26:32 And his brethren, men of valour, were two thousand and seven
hundred chief fathers, whom king David made rulers over the
Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, for every
matter pertaining to God, and affairs of the king.

27:1 Now the children of Israel after their number, to wit, the chief
fathers and captains of thousands and hundreds, and their officers
that served the king in any matter of the courses, which came in and
went out month by month throughout all the months of the year, of
every course were twenty and four thousand.

27:2 Over the first course for the first month was Jashobeam the son
of Zabdiel: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:3 Of the children of Perez was the chief of all the captains of the
host for the first month.

27:4 And over the course of the second month was Dodai an Ahohite, and
of his course was Mikloth also the ruler: in his course likewise were
twenty and four thousand.

27:5 The third captain of the host for the third month was Benaiah the
son of Jehoiada, a chief priest: and in his course were twenty and
four thousand.

27:6 This is that Benaiah, who was mighty among the thirty, and above
the thirty: and in his course was Ammizabad his son.

27:7 The fourth captain for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of
Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him: and in his course were twenty
and four thousand.

27:8 The fifth captain for the fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite:
and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:9 The sixth captain for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh
the Tekoite: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:10 The seventh captain for the seventh month was Helez the
Pelonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twenty
and four thousand.

27:11 The eighth captain for the eighth month was Sibbecai the
Hushathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course were twenty and four
thousand.

27:12 The ninth captain for the ninth month was Abiezer the
Anetothite, of the Benjamites: and in his course were twenty and four
thousand.

27:13 The tenth captain for the tenth month was Maharai the
Netophathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course were twenty and four
thousand.

27:14 The eleventh captain for the eleventh month was Benaiah the
Pirathonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twenty
and four thousand.

27:15 The twelfth captain for the twelfth month was Heldai the
Netophathite, of Othniel: and in his course were twenty and four
thousand.

27:16 Furthermore over the tribes of Israel: the ruler of the
Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri: of the Simeonites,
Shephatiah the son of Maachah: 27:17 Of the Levites, Hashabiah the son
of Kemuel: of the Aaronites, Zadok: 27:18 Of Judah, Elihu, one of the
brethren of David: of Issachar, Omri the son of Michael: 27:19 Of
Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: of Naphtali, Jerimoth the son of
Azriel: 27:20 Of the children of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah:
of the half tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah: 27:21 Of the
half tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah: of
Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner: 27:22 Of Dan, Azareel the son of
Jeroham. These were the princes of the tribes of Israel.

27:23 But David took not the number of them from twenty years old and
under: because the LORD had said he would increase Israel like to the
stars of the heavens.

27:24 Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but he finished not,
because there fell wrath for it against Israel; neither was the number
put in the account of the chronicles of king David.

27:25 And over the king's treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel: and
over the storehouses in the fields, in the cities, and in the
villages, and in the castles, was Jehonathan the son of Uzziah: 27:26
And over them that did the work of the field for tillage of the ground
was Ezri the son of Chelub: 27:27 And over the vineyards was Shimei
the Ramathite: over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars
was Zabdi the Shiphmite: 27:28 And over the olive trees and the
sycomore trees that were in the low plains was Baalhanan the Gederite:
and over the cellars of oil was Joash: 27:29 And over the herds that
fed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite: and over the herds that were
in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai: 27:30 Over the camels
also was Obil the Ishmaelite: and over the asses was Jehdeiah the
Meronothite: 27:31 And over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagerite. All
these were the rulers of the substance which was king David's.

27:32 Also Jonathan David's uncle was a counsellor, a wise man, and a
scribe: and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king's sons: 27:33
And Ahithophel was the king's counsellor: and Hushai the Archite was
the king's companion: 27:34 And after Ahithophel was Jehoiada the son
of Benaiah, and Abiathar: and the general of the king's army was Joab.

28:1 And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the
tribes, and the captains of the companies that ministered to the king
by course, and the captains over the thousands, and captains over the
hundreds, and the stewards over all the substance and possession of
the king, and of his sons, with the officers, and with the mighty men,
and with all the valiant men, unto Jerusalem.

28:2 Then David the king stood up upon his feet, and said, Hear me, my
brethren, and my people: As for me, I had in mine heart to build an
house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and for the
footstool of our God, and had made ready for the building: 28:3 But
God said unto me, Thou shalt not build an house for my name, because
thou hast been a man of war, and hast shed blood.

28:4 Howbeit the LORD God of Israel chose me before all the house of
my father to be king over Israel for ever: for he hath chosen Judah to
be the ruler; and of the house of Judah, the house of my father; and
among the sons of my father he liked me to make me king over all
Israel: 28:5 And of all my sons, (for the LORD hath given me many
sons,) he hath chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of the
kingdom of the LORD over Israel.

28:6 And he said unto me, Solomon thy son, he shall build my house and
my courts: for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his
father.

28:7 Moreover I will establish his kingdom for ever, if he be constant
to do my commandments and my judgments, as at this day.

28:8 Now therefore in the sight of all Israel the congregation of the
LORD, and in the audience of our God, keep and seek for all the
commandments of the LORD your God: that ye may possess this good land,
and leave it for an inheritance for your children after you for ever.

28:9 And thou, Solomon my son, know thou the God of thy father, and
serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the LORD
searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the
thoughts: if thou seek him, he will be found of thee; but if thou
forsake him, he will cast thee off for ever.

28:10 Take heed now; for the LORD hath chosen thee to build an house
for the sanctuary: be strong, and do it.

28:11 Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch, and
of the houses thereof, and of the treasuries thereof, and of the upper
chambers thereof, and of the inner parlours thereof, and of the place
of the mercy seat, 28:12 And the pattern of all that he had by the
spirit, of the courts of the house of the LORD, and of all the
chambers round about, of the treasuries of the house of God, and of
the treasuries of the dedicated things: 28:13 Also for the courses of
the priests and the Levites, and for all the work of the service of
the house of the LORD, and for all the vessels of service in the house
of the LORD.

28:14 He gave of gold by weight for things of gold, for all
instruments of all manner of service; silver also for all instruments
of silver by weight, for all instruments of every kind of service:
28:15 Even the weight for the candlesticks of gold, and for their
lamps of gold, by weight for every candlestick, and for the lamps
thereof: and for the candlesticks of silver by weight, both for the
candlestick, and also for the lamps thereof, according to the use of
every candlestick.

28:16 And by weight he gave gold for the tables of shewbread, for
every table; and likewise silver for the tables of silver: 28:17 Also
pure gold for the fleshhooks, and the bowls, and the cups: and for the
golden basons he gave gold by weight for every bason; and likewise
silver by weight for every bason of silver: 28:18 And for the altar of
incense refined gold by weight; and gold for the pattern of the
chariot of the cherubims, that spread out their wings, and covered the
ark of the covenant of the LORD.

28:19 All this, said David, the LORD made me understand in writing by
his hand upon me, even all the works of this pattern.

28:20 And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and of good
courage, and do it: fear not, nor be dismayed: for the LORD God, even
my God, will be with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee,
until thou hast finished all the work for the service of the house of
the LORD.

28:21 And, behold, the courses of the priests and the Levites, even
they shall be with thee for all the service of the house of God: and
there shall be with thee for all manner of workmanship every willing
skilful man, for any manner of service: also the princes and all the
people will be wholly at thy commandment.

29:1 Furthermore David the king said unto all the congregation,
Solomon my son, whom alone God hath chosen, is yet young and tender,
and the work is great: for the palace is not for man, but for the LORD
God.

29:2 Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the
gold for things to be made of gold, and the silver for things of
silver, and the brass for things of brass, the iron for things of
iron, and wood for things of wood; onyx stones, and stones to be set,
glistering stones, and of divers colours, and all manner of precious
stones, and marble stones in abundance.

29:3 Moreover, because I have set my affection to the house of my God,
I have of mine own proper good, of gold and silver, which I have given
to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for
the holy house.

29:4 Even three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and
seven thousand talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the
houses withal: 29:5 The gold for things of gold, and the silver for
things of silver, and for all manner of work to be made by the hands
of artificers. And who then is willing to consecrate his service this
day unto the LORD?  29:6 Then the chief of the fathers and princes of
the tribes of Israel and the captains of thousands and of hundreds,
with the rulers of the king's work, offered willingly, 29:7 And gave
for the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents and
ten thousand drams, and of silver ten thousand talents, and of brass
eighteen thousand talents, and one hundred thousand talents of iron.

29:8 And they with whom precious stones were found gave them to the
treasure of the house of the LORD, by the hand of Jehiel the
Gershonite.

29:9 Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly,
because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the LORD: and
David the king also rejoiced with great joy.

29:10 Wherefore David blessed the LORD before all the congregation:
and David said, Blessed be thou, LORD God of Israel our father, for
ever and ever.

29:11 Thine, O LORD is the greatness, and the power, and the glory,
and the victory, and the majesty: for all that is in the heaven and in
the earth is thine; thine is the kingdom, O LORD, and thou art exalted
as head above all.

29:12 Both riches and honour come of thee, and thou reignest over all;
and in thine hand is power and might; and in thine hand it is to make
great, and to give strength unto all.

29:13 Now therefore, our God, we thank thee, and praise thy glorious
name.

29:14 But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to
offer so willingly after this sort? for all things come of thee, and
of thine own have we given thee.

29:15 For we are strangers before thee, and sojourners, as were all
our fathers: our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is none
abiding.

29:16 O LORD our God, all this store that we have prepared to build
thee an house for thine holy name cometh of thine hand, and is all
thine own.

29:17 I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, and hast
pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of mine heart I
have willingly offered all these things: and now have I seen with joy
thy people, which are present here, to offer willingly unto thee.

29:18 O LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keep
this for ever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy
people, and prepare their heart unto thee: 29:19 And give unto Solomon
my son a perfect heart, to keep thy commandments, thy testimonies, and
thy statutes, and to do all these things, and to build the palace, for
the which I have made provision.

29:20 And David said to all the congregation, Now bless the LORD your
God.

And all the congregation blessed the LORD God of their fathers, and
bowed down their heads, and worshipped the LORD, and the king.

29:21 And they sacrificed sacrifices unto the LORD, and offered burnt
offerings unto the LORD, on the morrow after that day, even a thousand
bullocks, a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, with their drink
offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel: 29:22 And did
eat and drink before the LORD on that day with great gladness. And
they made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and anointed
him unto the LORD to be the chief governor, and Zadok to be priest.

29:23 Then Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king instead of
David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him.

29:24 And all the princes, and the mighty men, and all the sons
likewise of king David, submitted themselves unto Solomon the king.

29:25 And the LORD magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all
Israel, and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on
any king before him in Israel.

29:26 Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.

29:27 And the time that he reigned over Israel was forty years; seven
years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three years reigned he in
Jerusalem.

29:28 And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honour:
and Solomon his son reigned in his stead.

29:29 Now the acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they are
written in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathan the
prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer, 29:30 With all his reign and
his might, and the times that went over him, and over Israel, and over
all the kingdoms of the countries.




The Second Book of the Chronicles


1:1 And Solomon the son of David was strengthened in his kingdom, and
the LORD his God was with him, and magnified him exceedingly.

1:2 Then Solomon spake unto all Israel, to the captains of thousands
and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to every governor in all
Israel, the chief of the fathers.

1:3 So Solomon, and all the congregation with him, went to the high
place that was at Gibeon; for there was the tabernacle of the
congregation of God, which Moses the servant of the LORD had made in
the wilderness.

1:4 But the ark of God had David brought up from Kirjathjearim to the
place which David had prepared for it: for he had pitched a tent for
it at Jerusalem.

1:5 Moreover the brasen altar, that Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son
of Hur, had made, he put before the tabernacle of the LORD: and
Solomon and the congregation sought unto it.

1:6 And Solomon went up thither to the brasen altar before the LORD,
which was at the tabernacle of the congregation, and offered a
thousand burnt offerings upon it.

1:7 In that night did God appear unto Solomon, and said unto him, Ask
what I shall give thee.

1:8 And Solomon said unto God, Thou hast shewed great mercy unto David
my father, and hast made me to reign in his stead.

1:9 Now, O LORD God, let thy promise unto David my father be
established: for thou hast made me king over a people like the dust of
the earth in multitude.

1:10 Give me now wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come in
before this people: for who can judge this thy people, that is so
great?  1:11 And God said to Solomon, Because this was in thine heart,
and thou hast not asked riches, wealth, or honour, nor the life of
thine enemies, neither yet hast asked long life; but hast asked wisdom
and knowledge for thyself, that thou mayest judge my people, over whom
I have made thee king: 1:12 Wisdom and knowledge is granted unto thee;
and I will give thee riches, and wealth, and honour, such as none of
the kings have had that have been before thee, neither shall there any
after thee have the like.

1:13 Then Solomon came from his journey to the high place that was at
Gibeon to Jerusalem, from before the tabernacle of the congregation,
and reigned over Israel.

1:14 And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen: and he had a thousand
and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, which he
placed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.

1:15 And the king made silver and gold at Jerusalem as plenteous as
stones, and cedar trees made he as the sycomore trees that are in the
vale for abundance.

1:16 And Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt, and linen yarn: the
king's merchants received the linen yarn at a price.

1:17 And they fetched up, and brought forth out of Egypt a chariot for
six hundred shekels of silver, and an horse for an hundred and fifty:
and so brought they out horses for all the kings of the Hittites, and
for the kings of Syria, by their means.

2:1 And Solomon determined to build an house for the name of the LORD,
and an house for his kingdom.

2:2 And Solomon told out threescore and ten thousand men to bear
burdens, and fourscore thousand to hew in the mountain, and three
thousand and six hundred to oversee them.

2:3 And Solomon sent to Huram the king of Tyre, saying, As thou didst
deal with David my father, and didst send him cedars to build him an
house to dwell therein, even so deal with me.

2:4 Behold, I build an house to the name of the LORD my God, to
dedicate it to him, and to burn before him sweet incense, and for the
continual shewbread, and for the burnt offerings morning and evening,
on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the solemn feasts of the
LORD our God. This is an ordinance for ever to Israel.

2:5 And the house which I build is great: for great is our God above
all gods.

2:6 But who is able to build him an house, seeing the heaven and
heaven of heavens cannot contain him? who am I then, that I should
build him an house, save only to burn sacrifice before him?  2:7 Send
me now therefore a man cunning to work in gold, and in silver, and in
brass, and in iron, and in purple, and crimson, and blue, and that can
skill to grave with the cunning men that are with me in Judah and in
Jerusalem, whom David my father did provide.

2:8 Send me also cedar trees, fir trees, and algum trees, out of
Lebanon: for I know that thy servants can skill to cut timber in
Lebanon; and, behold, my servants shall be with thy servants, 2:9 Even
to prepare me timber in abundance: for the house which I am about to
build shall be wonderful great.

2:10 And, behold, I will give to thy servants, the hewers that cut
timber, twenty thousand measures of beaten wheat, and twenty thousand
measures of barley, and twenty thousand baths of wine, and twenty
thousand baths of oil.

2:11 Then Huram the king of Tyre answered in writing, which he sent to
Solomon, Because the LORD hath loved his people, he hath made thee
king over them.

2:12 Huram said moreover, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, that made
heaven and earth, who hath given to David the king a wise son, endued
with prudence and understanding, that might build an house for the
LORD, and an house for his kingdom.

2:13 And now I have sent a cunning man, endued with understanding, of
Huram my father's, 2:14 The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan,
and his father was a man of Tyre, skilful to work in gold, and in
silver, in brass, in iron, in stone, and in timber, in purple, in
blue, and in fine linen, and in crimson; also to grave any manner of
graving, and to find out every device which shall be put to him, with
thy cunning men, and with the cunning men of my lord David thy father.

2:15 Now therefore the wheat, and the barley, the oil, and the wine,
which my lord hath spoken of, let him send unto his servants: 2:16 And
we will cut wood out of Lebanon, as much as thou shalt need: and we
will bring it to thee in floats by sea to Joppa; and thou shalt carry
it up to Jerusalem.

2:17 And Solomon numbered all the strangers that were in the land of
Israel, after the numbering wherewith David his father had numbered
them; and they were found an hundred and fifty thousand and three
thousand and six hundred.

2:18 And he set threescore and ten thousand of them to be bearers of
burdens, and fourscore thousand to be hewers in the mountain, and
three thousand and six hundred overseers to set the people a work.

3:1 Then Solomon began to build the house of the LORD at Jerusalem in
mount Moriah, where the Lord appeared unto David his father, in the
place that David had prepared in the threshingfloor of Ornan the
Jebusite.

3:2 And he began to build in the second day of the second month, in
the fourth year of his reign.

3:3 Now these are the things wherein Solomon was instructed for the
building of the house of God. The length by cubits after the first
measure was threescore cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.

3:4 And the porch that was in the front of the house, the length of it
was according to the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and the
height was an hundred and twenty: and he overlaid it within with pure
gold.

3:5 And the greater house he cieled with fir tree, which he overlaid
with fine gold, and set thereon palm trees and chains.

3:6 And he garnished the house with precious stones for beauty: and
the gold was gold of Parvaim.

3:7 He overlaid also the house, the beams, the posts, and the walls
thereof, and the doors thereof, with gold; and graved cherubims on the
walls.

3:8 And he made the most holy house, the length whereof was according
to the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and the breadth thereof
twenty cubits: and he overlaid it with fine gold, amounting to six
hundred talents.

3:9 And the weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. And he
overlaid the upper chambers with gold.

3:10 And in the most holy house he made two cherubims of image work,
and overlaid them with gold.

3:11 And the wings of the cherubims were twenty cubits long: one wing
of the one cherub was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house:
and the other wing was likewise five cubits, reaching to the wing of
the other cherub.

3:12 And one wing of the other cherub was five cubits, reaching to the
wall of the house: and the other wing was five cubits also, joining to
the wing of the other cherub.

3:13 The wings of these cherubims spread themselves forth twenty
cubits: and they stood on their feet, and their faces were inward.

3:14 And he made the vail of blue, and purple, and crimson, and fine
linen, and wrought cherubims thereon.

3:15 Also he made before the house two pillars of thirty and five
cubits high, and the chapiter that was on the top of each of them was
five cubits.

3:16 And he made chains, as in the oracle, and put them on the heads
of the pillars; and made an hundred pomegranates, and put them on the
chains.

3:17 And he reared up the pillars before the temple, one on the right
hand, and the other on the left; and called the name of that on the
right hand Jachin, and the name of that on the left Boaz.

4:1 Moreover he made an altar of brass, twenty cubits the length
thereof, and twenty cubits the breadth thereof, and ten cubits the
height thereof.

4:2 Also he made a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round
in compass, and five cubits the height thereof; and a line of thirty
cubits did compass it round about.

4:3 And under it was the similitude of oxen, which did compass it
round about: ten in a cubit, compassing the sea round about. Two rows
of oxen were cast, when it was cast.

4:4 It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and
three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and
three looking toward the east: and the sea was set above upon them,
and all their hinder parts were inward.

4:5 And the thickness of it was an handbreadth, and the brim of it
like the work of the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies; and it
received and held three thousand baths.

4:6 He made also ten lavers, and put five on the right hand, and five
on the left, to wash in them: such things as they offered for the
burnt offering they washed in them; but the sea was for the priests to
wash in.

4:7 And he made ten candlesticks of gold according to their form, and
set them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left.

4:8 He made also ten tables, and placed them in the temple, five on
the right side, and five on the left. And he made an hundred basons of
gold.

4:9 Furthermore he made the court of the priests, and the great court,
and doors for the court, and overlaid the doors of them with brass.

4:10 And he set the sea on the right side of the east end, over
against the south.

4:11 And Huram made the pots, and the shovels, and the basons. And
Huram finished the work that he was to make for king Solomon for the
house of God; 4:12 To wit, the two pillars, and the pommels, and the
chapiters which were on the top of the two pillars, and the two
wreaths to cover the two pommels of the chapiters which were on the
top of the pillars; 4:13 And four hundred pomegranates on the two
wreaths; two rows of pomegranates on each wreath, to cover the two
pommels of the chapiters which were upon the pillars.

4:14 He made also bases, and lavers made he upon the bases; 4:15 One
sea, and twelve oxen under it.

4:16 The pots also, and the shovels, and the fleshhooks, and all their
instruments, did Huram his father make to king Solomon for the house
of the LORD of bright brass.

4:17 In the plain of Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay ground
between Succoth and Zeredathah.

4:18 Thus Solomon made all these vessels in great abundance: for the
weight of the brass could not be found out.

4:19 And Solomon made all the vessels that were for the house of God,
the golden altar also, and the tables whereon the shewbread was set;
4:20 Moreover the candlesticks with their lamps, that they should burn
after the manner before the oracle, of pure gold; 4:21 And the
flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, made he of gold, and that
perfect gold; 4:22 And the snuffers, and the basons, and the spoons,
and the censers, of pure gold: and the entry of the house, the inner
doors thereof for the most holy place, and the doors of the house of
the temple, were of gold.

5:1 Thus all the work that Solomon made for the house of the LORD was
finished: and Solomon brought in all the things that David his father
had dedicated; and the silver, and the gold, and all the instruments,
put he among the treasures of the house of God.

5:2 Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of
the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel, unto
Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the
city of David, which is Zion.

5:3 Wherefore all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto the king
in the feast which was in the seventh month.

5:4 And all the elders of Israel came; and the Levites took up the
ark.

5:5 And they brought up the ark, and the tabernacle of the
congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle,
these did the priests and the Levites bring up.

5:6 Also king Solomon, and all the congregation of Israel that were
assembled unto him before the ark, sacrificed sheep and oxen, which
could not be told nor numbered for multitude.

5:7 And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the LORD
unto his place, to the oracle of the house, into the most holy place,
even under the wings of the cherubims: 5:8 For the cherubims spread
forth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubims covered
the ark and the staves thereof above.

5:9 And they drew out the staves of the ark, that the ends of the
staves were seen from the ark before the oracle; but they were not
seen without. And there it is unto this day.

5:10 There was nothing in the ark save the two tables which Moses put
therein at Horeb, when the LORD made a covenant with the children of
Israel, when they came out of Egypt.

5:11 And it came to pass, when the priests were come out of the holy
place: (for all the priests that were present were sanctified, and did
not then wait by course: 5:12 Also the Levites which were the singers,
all of them of Asaph, of Heman, of Jeduthun, with their sons and their
brethren, being arrayed in white linen, having cymbals and psalteries
and harps, stood at the east end of the altar, and with them an
hundred and twenty priests sounding with trumpets:) 5:13 It came even
to pass, as the trumpeters and singers were as one, to make one sound
to be heard in praising and thanking the LORD; and when they lifted up
their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of musick,
and praised the LORD, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth
for ever: that then the house was filled with a cloud, even the house
of the LORD; 5:14 So that the priests could not stand to minister by
reason of the cloud: for the glory of the LORD had filled the house of
God.

6:1 Then said Solomon, The LORD hath said that he would dwell in the
thick darkness.

6:2 But I have built an house of habitation for thee, and a place for
thy dwelling for ever.

6:3 And the king turned his face, and blessed the whole congregation
of Israel: and all the congregation of Israel stood.

6:4 And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who hath with his
hands fulfilled that which he spake with his mouth to my father David,
saying, 6:5 Since the day that I brought forth my people out of the
land of Egypt I chose no city among all the tribes of Israel to build
an house in, that my name might be there; neither chose I any man to
be a ruler over my people Israel: 6:6 But I have chosen Jerusalem,
that my name might be there; and have chosen David to be over my
people Israel.

6:7 Now it was in the heart of David my father to build an house for
the name of the LORD God of Israel.

6:8 But the LORD said to David my father, Forasmuch as it was in thine
heart to build an house for my name, thou didst well in that it was in
thine heart: 6:9 Notwithstanding thou shalt not build the house; but
thy son which shall come forth out of thy loins, he shall build the
house for my name.

6:10 The LORD therefore hath performed his word that he hath spoken:
for I am risen up in the room of David my father, and am set on the
throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built the house for
the name of the LORD God of Israel.

6:11 And in it have I put the ark, wherein is the covenant of the
LORD, that he made with the children of Israel.

6:12 And he stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all
the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands: 6:13 For
Solomon had made a brasen scaffold of five cubits long, and five
cubits broad, and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of
the court: and upon it he stood, and kneeled down upon his knees
before all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands
toward heaven.

6:14 And said, O LORD God of Israel, there is no God like thee in the
heaven, nor in the earth; which keepest covenant, and shewest mercy
unto thy servants, that walk before thee with all their hearts: 6:15
Thou which hast kept with thy servant David my father that which thou
hast promised him; and spakest with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it
with thine hand, as it is this day.

6:16 Now therefore, O LORD God of Israel, keep with thy servant David
my father that which thou hast promised him, saying, There shall not
fail thee a man in my sight to sit upon the throne of Israel; yet so
that thy children take heed to their way to walk in my law, as thou
hast walked before me.

6:17 Now then, O LORD God of Israel, let thy word be verified, which
thou hast spoken unto thy servant David.

6:18 But will God in very deed dwell with men on the earth? behold,
heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much less
this house which I have built!  6:19 Have respect therefore to the
prayer of thy servant, and to his supplication, O LORD my God, to
hearken unto the cry and the prayer which thy servant prayeth before
thee: 6:20 That thine eyes may be open upon this house day and night,
upon the place whereof thou hast said that thou wouldest put thy name
there; to hearken unto the prayer which thy servant prayeth toward
this place.

6:21 Hearken therefore unto the supplications of thy servant, and of
thy people Israel, which they shall make toward this place: hear thou
from thy dwelling place, even from heaven; and when thou hearest,
forgive.

6:22 If a man sin against his neighbour, and an oath be laid upon him
to make him swear, and the oath come before thine altar in this house;
6:23 Then hear thou from heaven, and do, and judge thy servants, by
requiting the wicked, by recompensing his way upon his own head; and
by justifying the righteous, by giving him according to his
righteousness.

6:24 And if thy people Israel be put to the worse before the enemy,
because they have sinned against thee; and shall return and confess
thy name, and pray and make supplication before thee in this house;
6:25 Then hear thou from the heavens, and forgive the sin of thy
people Israel, and bring them again unto the land which thou gavest to
them and to their fathers.

6:26 When the heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they
have sinned against thee; yet if they pray toward this place, and
confess thy name, and turn from their sin, when thou dost afflict
them; 6:27 Then hear thou from heaven, and forgive the sin of thy
servants, and of thy people Israel, when thou hast taught them the
good way, wherein they should walk; and send rain upon thy land, which
thou hast given unto thy people for an inheritance.

6:28 If there be dearth in the land, if there be pestilence, if there
be blasting, or mildew, locusts, or caterpillers; if their enemies
besiege them in the cities of their land; whatsoever sore or
whatsoever sickness there be: 6:29 Then what prayer or what
supplication soever shall be made of any man, or of all thy people
Israel, when every one shall know his own sore and his own grief, and
shall spread forth his hands in this house: 6:30 Then hear thou from
heaven thy dwelling place, and forgive, and render unto every man
according unto all his ways, whose heart thou knowest; (for thou only
knowest the hearts of the children of men:) 6:31 That they may fear
thee, to walk in thy ways, so long as they live in the land which thou
gavest unto our fathers.

6:32 Moreover concerning the stranger, which is not of thy people
Israel, but is come from a far country for thy great name's sake, and
thy mighty hand, and thy stretched out arm; if they come and pray in
this house; 6:33 Then hear thou from the heavens, even from thy
dwelling place, and do according to all that the stranger calleth to
thee for; that all people of the earth may know thy name, and fear
thee, as doth thy people Israel, and may know that this house which I
have built is called by thy name.

6:34 If thy people go out to war against their enemies by the way that
thou shalt send them, and they pray unto thee toward this city which
thou hast chosen, and the house which I have built for thy name; 6:35
Then hear thou from the heavens their prayer and their supplication,
and maintain their cause.

6:36 If they sin against thee, (for there is no man which sinneth
not,) and thou be angry with them, and deliver them over before their
enemies, and they carry them away captives unto a land far off or
near; 6:37 Yet if they bethink themselves in the land whither they are
carried captive, and turn and pray unto thee in the land of their
captivity, saying, We have sinned, we have done amiss, and have dealt
wickedly; 6:38 If they return to thee with all their heart and with
all their soul in the land of their captivity, whither they have
carried them captives, and pray toward their land, which thou gavest
unto their fathers, and toward the city which thou hast chosen, and
toward the house which I have built for thy name: 6:39 Then hear thou
from the heavens, even from thy dwelling place, their prayer and their
supplications, and maintain their cause, and forgive thy people which
have sinned against thee.

6:40 Now, my God, let, I beseech thee, thine eyes be open, and let
thine ears be attent unto the prayer that is made in this place.

6:41 Now therefore arise, O LORD God, into thy resting place, thou,
and the ark of thy strength: let thy priests, O LORD God, be clothed
with salvation, and let thy saints rejoice in goodness.

6:42 O LORD God, turn not away the face of thine anointed: remember
the mercies of David thy servant.

7:1 Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down
from heaven, and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices; and
the glory of the LORD filled the house.

7:2 And the priests could not enter into the house of the LORD,
because the glory of the LORD had filled the LORD's house.

7:3 And when all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down,
and the glory of the LORD upon the house, they bowed themselves with
their faces to the ground upon the pavement, and worshipped, and
praised the LORD, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth for
ever.

7:4 Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices before the
LORD.

7:5 And king Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty and two thousand
oxen, and an hundred and twenty thousand sheep: so the king and all
the people dedicated the house of God.

7:6 And the priests waited on their offices: the Levites also with
instruments of musick of the LORD, which David the king had made to
praise the LORD, because his mercy endureth for ever, when David
praised by their ministry; and the priests sounded trumpets before
them, and all Israel stood.

7:7 Moreover Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was before
the house of the LORD: for there he offered burnt offerings, and the
fat of the peace offerings, because the brasen altar which Solomon had
made was not able to receive the burnt offerings, and the meat
offerings, and the fat.

7:8 Also at the same time Solomon kept the feast seven days, and all
Israel with him, a very great congregation, from the entering in of
Hamath unto the river of Egypt.

7:9 And in the eighth day they made a solemn assembly: for they kept
the dedication of the altar seven days, and the feast seven days.

7:10 And on the three and twentieth day of the seventh month he sent
the people away into their tents, glad and merry in heart for the
goodness that the LORD had shewed unto David, and to Solomon, and to
Israel his people.

7:11 Thus Solomon finished the house of the LORD, and the king's
house: and all that came into Solomon's heart to make in the house of
the LORD, and in his own house, he prosperously effected.

7:12 And the LORD appeared to Solomon by night, and said unto him, I
have heard thy prayer, and have chosen this place to myself for an
house of sacrifice.

7:13 If I shut up heaven that there be no rain, or if I command the
locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people;
7:14 If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble
themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked
ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and
will heal their land.

7:15 Now mine eyes shall be open, and mine ears attent unto the prayer
that is made in this place.

7:16 For now have I chosen and sanctified this house, that my name may
be there for ever: and mine eyes and mine heart shall be there
perpetually.

7:17 And as for thee, if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father
walked, and do according to all that I have commanded thee, and shalt
observe my statutes and my judgments; 7:18 Then will I stablish the
throne of thy kingdom, according as I have covenanted with David thy
father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man to be ruler in Israel.

7:19 But if ye turn away, and forsake my statutes and my commandments,
which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods, and
worship them; 7:20 Then will I pluck them up by the roots out of my
land which I have given them; and this house, which I have sanctified
for my name, will I cast out of my sight, and will make it to be a
proverb and a byword among all nations.

7:21 And this house, which is high, shall be an astonishment to every
one that passeth by it; so that he shall say, Why hath the LORD done
thus unto this land, and unto this house?  7:22 And it shall be
answered, Because they forsook the LORD God of their fathers, which
brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on other
gods, and worshipped them, and served them: therefore hath he brought
all this evil upon them.

8:1 And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, wherein Solomon
had built the house of the LORD, and his own house, 8:2 That the
cities which Huram had restored to Solomon, Solomon built them, and
caused the children of Israel to dwell there.

8:3 And Solomon went to Hamathzobah, and prevailed against it.

8:4 And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the store cities,
which he built in Hamath.

8:5 Also he built Bethhoron the upper, and Bethhoron the nether,
fenced cities, with walls, gates, and bars; 8:6 And Baalath, and all
the store cities that Solomon had, and all the chariot cities, and the
cities of the horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build in
Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and throughout all the land of his
dominion.

8:7 As for all the people that were left of the Hittites, and the
Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites,
which were not of Israel, 8:8 But of their children, who were left
after them in the land, whom the children of Israel consumed not, them
did Solomon make to pay tribute until this day.

8:9 But of the children of Israel did Solomon make no servants for his
work; but they were men of war, and chief of his captains, and
captains of his chariots and horsemen.

8:10 And these were the chief of king Solomon's officers, even two
hundred and fifty, that bare rule over the people.

8:11 And Solomon brought up the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city of
David unto the house that he had built for her: for he said, My wife
shall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because the
places are holy, whereunto the ark of the LORD hath come.

8:12 Then Solomon offered burnt offerings unto the LORD on the altar
of the LORD, which he had built before the porch, 8:13 Even after a
certain rate every day, offering according to the commandment of
Moses, on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the solemn
feasts, three times in the year, even in the feast of unleavened
bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles.

8:14 And he appointed, according to the order of David his father, the
courses of the priests to their service, and the Levites to their
charges, to praise and minister before the priests, as the duty of
every day required: the porters also by their courses at every gate:
for so had David the man of God commanded.

8:15 And they departed not from the commandment of the king unto the
priests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning the
treasures.

8:16 Now all the work of Solomon was prepared unto the day of the
foundation of the house of the LORD, and until it was finished. So the
house of the LORD was perfected.

8:17 Then went Solomon to Eziongeber, and to Eloth, at the sea side in
the land of Edom.

8:18 And Huram sent him by the hands of his servants ships, and
servants that had knowledge of the sea; and they went with the
servants of Solomon to Ophir, and took thence four hundred and fifty
talents of gold, and brought them to king Solomon.

9:1 And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came
to prove Solomon with hard questions at Jerusalem, with a very great
company, and camels that bare spices, and gold in abundance, and
precious stones: and when she was come to Solomon, she communed with
him of all that was in her heart.

9:2 And Solomon told her all her questions: and there was nothing hid
from Solomon which he told her not.

9:3 And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon, and
the house that he had built, 9:4 And the meat of his table, and the
sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and
their apparel; his cupbearers also, and their apparel; and his ascent
by which he went up into the house of the LORD; there was no more
spirit in her.

9:5 And she said to the king, It was a true report which I heard in
mine own land of thine acts, and of thy wisdom: 9:6 Howbeit I believed
not their words, until I came, and mine eyes had seen it: and, behold,
the one half of the greatness of thy wisdom was not told me: for thou
exceedest the fame that I heard.

9:7 Happy are thy men, and happy are these thy servants, which stand
continually before thee, and hear thy wisdom.

9:8 Blessed be the LORD thy God, which delighted in thee to set thee
on his throne, to be king for the LORD thy God: because thy God loved
Israel, to establish them for ever, therefore made he thee king over
them, to do judgment and justice.

9:9 And she gave the king an hundred and twenty talents of gold, and
of spices great abundance, and precious stones: neither was there any
such spice as the queen of Sheba gave king Solomon.

9:10 And the servants also of Huram, and the servants of Solomon,
which brought gold from Ophir, brought algum trees and precious
stones.

9:11 And the king made of the algum trees terraces to the house of the
LORD, and to the king's palace, and harps and psalteries for singers:
and there were none such seen before in the land of Judah.

9:12 And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire,
whatsoever she asked, beside that which she had brought unto the king.
So she turned, and went away to her own land, she and her servants.

9:13 Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six
hundred and threescore and six talents of gold; 9:14 Beside that which
chapmen and merchants brought. And all the kings of Arabia and
governors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon.

9:15 And king Solomon made two hundred targets of beaten gold: six
hundred shekels of beaten gold went to one target.

9:16 And three hundred shields made he of beaten gold: three hundred
shekels of gold went to one shield. And the king put them in the house
of the forest of Lebanon.

9:17 Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it
with pure gold.

9:18 And there were six steps to the throne, with a footstool of gold,
which were fastened to the throne, and stays on each side of the
sitting place, and two lions standing by the stays: 9:19 And twelve
lions stood there on the one side and on the other upon the six steps.
There was not the like made in any kingdom.

9:20 And all the drinking vessels of king Solomon were of gold, and
all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure
gold: none were of silver; it was not any thing accounted of in the
days of Solomon.

9:21 For the king's ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram:
every three years once came the ships of Tarshish bringing gold, and
silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.

9:22 And king Solomon passed all the kings of the earth in riches and
wisdom.

9:23 And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon, to
hear his wisdom, that God had put in his heart.

9:24 And they brought every man his present, vessels of silver, and
vessels of gold, and raiment, harness, and spices, horses, and mules,
a rate year by year.

9:25 And Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, and
twelve thousand horsemen; whom he bestowed in the chariot cities, and
with the king at Jerusalem.

9:26 And he reigned over all the kings from the river even unto the
land of the Philistines, and to the border of Egypt.

9:27 And the king made silver in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar trees
made he as the sycomore trees that are in the low plains in abundance.

9:28 And they brought unto Solomon horses out of Egypt, and out of all
lands.

9:29 Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, first and last, are they not
written in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the prophecy of
Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer against
Jeroboam the son of Nebat?  9:30 And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over
all Israel forty years.

9:31 And Solomon slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city
of David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.

10:1 And Rehoboam went to Shechem: for to Shechem were all Israel come
to make him king.

10:2 And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was in
Egypt, whither he fled from the presence of Solomon the king, heard
it, that Jeroboam returned out of Egypt.

10:3 And they sent and called him. So Jeroboam and all Israel came and
spake to Rehoboam, saying, 10:4 Thy father made our yoke grievous: now
therefore ease thou somewhat the grievous servitude of thy father, and
his heavy yoke that he put upon us, and we will serve thee.

10:5 And he said unto them, Come again unto me after three days. And
the people departed.

10:6 And king Rehoboam took counsel with the old men that had stood
before Solomon his father while he yet lived, saying, What counsel
give ye me to return answer to this people?  10:7 And they spake unto
him, saying, If thou be kind to this people, and please them, and
speak good words to them, they will be thy servants for ever.

10:8 But he forsook the counsel which the old men gave him, and took
counsel with the young men that were brought up with him, that stood
before him.

10:9 And he said unto them, What advice give ye that we may return
answer to this people, which have spoken to me, saying, Ease somewhat
the yoke that thy father did put upon us?  10:10 And the young men
that were brought up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus shalt thou
answer the people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father made our
yoke heavy, but make thou it somewhat lighter for us; thus shalt thou
say unto them, My little finger shall be thicker than my father's
loins.

10:11 For whereas my father put a heavy yoke upon you, I will put more
to your yoke: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise
you with scorpions.

10:12 So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third
day, as the king bade, saying, Come again to me on the third day.

10:13 And the king answered them roughly; and king Rehoboam forsook
the counsel of the old men, 10:14 And answered them after the advice
of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will
add thereto: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise
you with scorpions.

10:15 So the king hearkened not unto the people: for the cause was of
God, that the LORD might perform his word, which he spake by the hand
of Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

10:16 And when all Israel saw that the king would not hearken unto
them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in
David?  and we have none inheritance in the son of Jesse: every man to
your tents, O Israel: and now, David, see to thine own house. So all
Israel went to their tents.

10:17 But as for the children of Israel that dwelt in the cities of
Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.

10:18 Then king Rehoboam sent Hadoram that was over the tribute; and
the children of Israel stoned him with stones, that he died. But king
Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to
Jerusalem.

10:19 And Israel rebelled against the house of David unto this day.

11:1 And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he gathered of the house
of Judah and Benjamin an hundred and fourscore thousand chosen men,
which were warriors, to fight against Israel, that he might bring the
kingdom again to Rehoboam.

11:2 But the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,
11:3 Speak unto Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all
Israel in Judah and Benjamin, saying, 11:4 Thus saith the LORD, Ye
shall not go up, nor fight against your brethren: return every man to
his house: for this thing is done of me. And they obeyed the words of
the LORD, and returned from going against Jeroboam.

11:5 And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem, and built cities for defence in
Judah.

11:6 He built even Bethlehem, and Etam, and Tekoa, 11:7 And Bethzur,
and Shoco, and Adullam, 11:8 And Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph, 11:9
And Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah, 11:10 And Zorah, and Aijalon,
and Hebron, which are in Judah and in Benjamin fenced cities.

11:11 And he fortified the strong holds, and put captains in them, and
store of victual, and of oil and wine.

11:12 And in every several city he put shields and spears, and made
them exceeding strong, having Judah and Benjamin on his side.

11:13 And the priests and the Levites that were in all Israel resorted
to him out of all their coasts.

11:14 For the Levites left their suburbs and their possession, and
came to Judah and Jerusalem: for Jeroboam and his sons had cast them
off from executing the priest's office unto the LORD: 11:15 And he
ordained him priests for the high places, and for the devils, and for
the calves which he had made.

11:16 And after them out of all the tribes of Israel such as set their
hearts to seek the LORD God of Israel came to Jerusalem, to sacrifice
unto the LORD God of their fathers.

11:17 So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and made Rehoboam the
son of Solomon strong, three years: for three years they walked in the
way of David and Solomon.

11:18 And Rehoboam took him Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son
of David to wife, and Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse;
11:19 Which bare him children; Jeush, and Shamariah, and Zaham.

11:20 And after her he took Maachah the daughter of Absalom; which
bare him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.

11:21 And Rehoboam loved Maachah the daughter of Absalom above all his
wives and his concubines: (for he took eighteen wives, and threescore
concubines; and begat twenty and eight sons, and threescore
daughters.)  11:22 And Rehoboam made Abijah the son of Maachah the
chief, to be ruler among his brethren: for he thought to make him
king.

11:23 And he dealt wisely, and dispersed of all his children
throughout all the countries of Judah and Benjamin, unto every fenced
city: and he gave them victual in abundance. And he desired many
wives.

12:1 And it came to pass, when Rehoboam had established the kingdom,
and had strengthened himself, he forsook the law of the LORD, and all
Israel with him.

12:2 And it came to pass, that in the fifth year of king Rehoboam
Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, because they had
transgressed against the LORD, 12:3 With twelve hundred chariots, and
threescore thousand horsemen: and the people were without number that
came with him out of Egypt; the Lubims, the Sukkiims, and the
Ethiopians.

12:4 And he took the fenced cities which pertained to Judah, and came
to Jerusalem.

12:5 Then came Shemaiah the prophet to Rehoboam, and to the princes of
Judah, that were gathered together to Jerusalem because of Shishak,
and said unto them, Thus saith the LORD, Ye have forsaken me, and
therefore have I also left you in the hand of Shishak.

12:6 Whereupon the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves;
and they said, The LORD is righteous.

12:7 And when the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, the word of
the LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, They have humbled themselves;
therefore I will not destroy them, but I will grant them some
deliverance; and my wrath shall not be poured out upon Jerusalem by
the hand of Shishak.

12:8 Nevertheless they shall be his servants; that they may know my
service, and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.

12:9 So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took away
the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the
king's house; he took all: he carried away also the shields of gold
which Solomon had made.

12:10 Instead of which king Rehoboam made shields of brass, and
committed them to the hands of the chief of the guard, that kept the
entrance of the king's house.

12:11 And when the king entered into the house of the LORD, the guard
came and fetched them, and brought them again into the guard chamber.

12:12 And when he humbled himself, the wrath of the LORD turned from
him, that he would not destroy him altogether: and also in Judah
things went well.

12:13 So king Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem, and reigned:
for Rehoboam was one and forty years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had
chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there. And his
mother's name was Naamah an Ammonitess.

12:14 And he did evil, because he prepared not his heart to seek the
LORD.

12:15 Now the acts of Rehoboam, first and last, are they not written
in the book of Shemaiah the prophet, and of Iddo the seer concerning
genealogies? And there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam
continually.

12:16 And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city
of David: and Abijah his son reigned in his stead.

13:1 Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam began Abijah to reign
over Judah.

13:2 He reigned three years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was
Michaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. And there was war between
Abijah and Jeroboam.

13:3 And Abijah set the battle in array with an army of valiant men of
war, even four hundred thousand chosen men: Jeroboam also set the
battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men,
being mighty men of valour.

13:4 And Abijah stood up upon mount Zemaraim, which is in mount
Ephraim, and said, Hear me, thou Jeroboam, and all Israel; 13:5 Ought
ye not to know that the LORD God of Israel gave the kingdom over
Israel to David for ever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant of
salt?  13:6 Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the
son of David, is risen up, and hath rebelled against his lord.

13:7 And there are gathered unto him vain men, the children of Belial,
and have strengthened themselves against Rehoboam the son of Solomon,
when Rehoboam was young and tenderhearted, and could not withstand
them.

13:8 And now ye think to withstand the kingdom of the LORD in the hand
of the sons of David; and ye be a great multitude, and there are with
your golden calves, which Jeroboam made you for gods.

13:9 Have ye not cast out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron,
and the Levites, and have made you priests after the manner of the
nations of other lands? so that whosoever cometh to consecrate himself
with a young bullock and seven rams, the same may be a priest of them
that are no gods.

13:10 But as for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not forsaken
him; and the priests, which minister unto the LORD, are the sons of
Aaron, and the Levites wait upon their business: 13:11 And they burn
unto the LORD every morning and every evening burnt sacrifices and
sweet incense: the shewbread also set they in order upon the pure
table; and the candlestick of gold with the lamps thereof, to burn
every evening: for we keep the charge of the LORD our God; but ye have
forsaken him.

13:12 And, behold, God himself is with us for our captain, and his
priests with sounding trumpets to cry alarm against you. O children of
Israel, fight ye not against the LORD God of your fathers; for ye
shall not prosper.

13:13 But Jeroboam caused an ambushment to come about behind them: so
they were before Judah, and the ambushment was behind them.

13:14 And when Judah looked back, behold, the battle was before and
behind: and they cried unto the LORD, and the priests sounded with the
trumpets.

13:15 Then the men of Judah gave a shout: and as the men of Judah
shouted, it came to pass, that God smote Jeroboam and all Israel
before Abijah and Judah.

13:16 And the children of Israel fled before Judah: and God delivered
them into their hand.

13:17 And Abijah and his people slew them with a great slaughter: so
there fell down slain of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men.

13:18 Thus the children of Israel were brought under at that time, and
the children of Judah prevailed, because they relied upon the LORD God
of their fathers.

13:19 And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam, and took cities from him,
Bethel with the towns thereof, and Jeshanah with the towns thereof,
and Ephraim with the towns thereof.

13:20 Neither did Jeroboam recover strength again in the days of
Abijah: and the LORD struck him, and he died.

13:21 But Abijah waxed mighty, and married fourteen wives, and begat
twenty and two sons, and sixteen daughters.

13:22 And the rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways, and his
sayings, are written in the story of the prophet Iddo.

14:1 So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city
of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land
was quiet ten years.

14:2 And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the LORD
his God: 14:3 For he took away the altars of the strange gods, and the
high places, and brake down the images, and cut down the groves: 14:4
And commanded Judah to seek the LORD God of their fathers, and to do
the law and the commandment.

14:5 Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places
and the images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.

14:6 And he built fenced cities in Judah: for the land had rest, and
he had no war in those years; because the LORD had given him rest.

14:7 Therefore he said unto Judah, Let us build these cities, and make
about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars, while the land is yet
before us; because we have sought the LORD our God, we have sought
him, and he hath given us rest on every side. So they built and
prospered.

14:8 And Asa had an army of men that bare targets and spears, out of
Judah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bare shields
and drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand: all these were
mighty men of valour.

14:9 And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an host
of a thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and came unto
Mareshah.

14:10 Then Asa went out against him, and they set the battle in array
in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah.

14:11 And Asa cried unto the LORD his God, and said, LORD, it is
nothing with thee to help, whether with many, or with them that have
no power: help us, O LORD our God; for we rest on thee, and in thy
name we go against this multitude. O LORD, thou art our God; let no
man prevail against thee.

14:12 So the LORD smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah;
and the Ethiopians fled.

14:13 And Asa and the people that were with him pursued them unto
Gerar: and the Ethiopians were overthrown, that they could not recover
themselves; for they were destroyed before the LORD, and before his
host; and they carried away very much spoil.

14:14 And they smote all the cities round about Gerar; for the fear of
the LORD came upon them: and they spoiled all the cities; for there
was exceeding much spoil in them.

14:15 They smote also the tents of cattle, and carried away sheep and
camels in abundance, and returned to Jerusalem.

15:1 And the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Oded: 15:2 And
he went out to meet Asa, and said unto him, Hear ye me, Asa, and all
Judah and Benjamin; The LORD is with you, while ye be with him; and if
ye seek him, he will be found of you; but if ye forsake him, he will
forsake you.

15:3 Now for a long season Israel hath been without the true God, and
without a teaching priest, and without law.

15:4 But when they in their trouble did turn unto the LORD God of
Israel, and sought him, he was found of them.

15:5 And in those times there was no peace to him that went out, nor
to him that came in, but great vexations were upon all the inhabitants
of the countries.

15:6 And nation was destroyed of nation, and city of city: for God did
vex them with all adversity.

15:7 Be ye strong therefore, and let not your hands be weak: for your
work shall be rewarded.

15:8 And when Asa heard these words, and the prophecy of Oded the
prophet, he took courage, and put away the abominable idols out of all
the land of Judah and Benjamin, and out of the cities which he had
taken from mount Ephraim, and renewed the altar of the LORD, that was
before the porch of the LORD.

15:9 And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and the strangers with
them out of Ephraim and Manasseh, and out of Simeon: for they fell to
him out of Israel in abundance, when they saw that the LORD his God
was with him.

15:10 So they gathered themselves together at Jerusalem in the third
month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa.

15:11 And they offered unto the LORD the same time, of the spoil which
they had brought, seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep.

15:12 And they entered into a covenant to seek the LORD God of their
fathers with all their heart and with all their soul; 15:13 That
whosoever would not seek the LORD God of Israel should be put to
death, whether small or great, whether man or woman.

15:14 And they sware unto the LORD with a loud voice, and with
shouting, and with trumpets, and with cornets.

15:15 And all Judah rejoiced at the oath: for they had sworn with all
their heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found
of them: and the LORD gave them rest round about.

15:16 And also concerning Maachah the mother of Asa the king, he
removed her from being queen, because she had made an idol in a grove:
and Asa cut down her idol, and stamped it, and burnt it at the brook
Kidron.

15:17 But the high places were not taken away out of Israel:
nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect all his days.

15:18 And he brought into the house of God the things that his father
had dedicated, and that he himself had dedicated, silver, and gold,
and vessels.

15:19 And there was no more war unto the five and thirtieth year of
the reign of Asa.

16:1 In the six and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa Baasha king of
Israel came up against Judah, and built Ramah, to the intent that he
might let none go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.

16:2 Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the
house of the LORD and of the king's house, and sent to Benhadad king
of Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying, 16:3 There is a league
between me and thee, as there was between my father and thy father:
behold, I have sent thee silver and gold; go, break thy league with
Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.

16:4 And Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of
his armies against the cities of Israel; and they smote Ijon, and Dan,
and Abelmaim, and all the store cities of Naphtali.

16:5 And it came to pass, when Baasha heard it, that he left off
building of Ramah, and let his work cease.

16:6 Then Asa the king took all Judah; and they carried away the
stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha was
building; and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.

16:7 And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah, and
said unto him, Because thou hast relied on the king of Syria, and not
relied on the LORD thy God, therefore is the host of the king of Syria
escaped out of thine hand.

16:8 Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubims a huge host, with very
many chariots and horsemen? yet, because thou didst rely on the LORD,
he delivered them into thine hand.

16:9 For the eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the whole
earth, to shew himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is
perfect toward him. Herein thou hast done foolishly: therefore from
henceforth thou shalt have wars.

16:10 Then Asa was wroth with the seer, and put him in a prison house;
for he was in a rage with him because of this thing. And Asa oppressed
some of the people the same time.

16:11 And, behold, the acts of Asa, first and last, lo, they are
written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

16:12 And Asa in the thirty and ninth year of his reign was diseased
in his feet, until his disease was exceeding great: yet in his disease
he sought not to the LORD, but to the physicians.

16:13 And Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and fortieth
year of his reign.

16:14 And they buried him in his own sepulchres, which he had made for
himself in the city of David, and laid him in the bed which was filled
with sweet odours and divers kinds of spices prepared by the
apothecaries' art: and they made a very great burning for him.

17:1 And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthened
himself against Israel.

17:2 And he placed forces in all the fenced cities of Judah, and set
garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which
Asa his father had taken.

17:3 And the LORD was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first
ways of his father David, and sought not unto Baalim; 17:4 But sought
to the Lord God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not
after the doings of Israel.

17:5 Therefore the LORD stablished the kingdom in his hand; and all
Judah brought to Jehoshaphat presents; and he had riches and honour in
abundance.

17:6 And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the LORD: moreover he
took away the high places and groves out of Judah.

17:7 Also in the third year of his reign he sent to his princes, even
to Benhail, and to Obadiah, and to Zechariah, and to Nethaneel, and to
Michaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah.

17:8 And with them he sent Levites, even Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and
Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah,
and Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, Levites; and with them Elishama and
Jehoram, priests.

17:9 And they taught in Judah, and had the book of the law of the LORD
with them, and went about throughout all the cities of Judah, and
taught the people.

17:10 And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands
that were round about Judah, so that they made no war against
Jehoshaphat.

17:11 Also some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents, and
tribute silver; and the Arabians brought him flocks, seven thousand
and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred he goats.

17:12 And Jehoshaphat waxed great exceedingly; and he built in Judah
castles, and cities of store.

17:13 And he had much business in the cities of Judah: and the men of
war, mighty men of valour, were in Jerusalem.

17:14 And these are the numbers of them according to the house of
their fathers: Of Judah, the captains of thousands; Adnah the chief,
and with him mighty men of valour three hundred thousand.

17:15 And next to him was Jehohanan the captain, and with him two
hundred and fourscore thousand.

17:16 And next him was Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly
offered himself unto the LORD; and with him two hundred thousand
mighty men of valour.

17:17 And of Benjamin; Eliada a mighty man of valour, and with him
armed men with bow and shield two hundred thousand.

17:18 And next him was Jehozabad, and with him an hundred and
fourscore thousand ready prepared for the war.

17:19 These waited on the king, beside those whom the king put in the
fenced cities throughout all Judah.

18:1 Now Jehoshaphat had riches and honour in abundance, and joined
affinity with Ahab.

18:2 And after certain years he went down to Ahab to Samaria. And Ahab
killed sheep and oxen for him in abundance, and for the people that he
had with him, and persuaded him to go up with him to Ramothgilead.

18:3 And Ahab king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Wilt
thou go with me to Ramothgilead? And he answered him, I am as thou
art, and my people as thy people; and we will be with thee in the war.

18:4 And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Enquire, I pray
thee, at the word of the LORD to day.

18:5 Therefore the king of Israel gathered together of prophets four
hundred men, and said unto them, Shall we go to Ramothgilead to
battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for God will deliver
it into the king's hand.

18:6 But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD
besides, that we might enquire of him?  18:7 And the king of Israel
said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, by whom we may enquire of
the LORD: but I hate him; for he never prophesied good unto me, but
always evil: the same is Micaiah the son of Imla. And Jehoshaphat
said, Let not the king say so.

18:8 And the king of Israel called for one of his officers, and said,
Fetch quickly Micaiah the son of Imla.

18:9 And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah sat either
of them on his throne, clothed in their robes, and they sat in a void
place at the entering in of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets
prophesied before them.

18:10 And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah had made him horns of iron,
and said, Thus saith the LORD, With these thou shalt push Syria until
they be consumed.

18:11 And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to
Ramothgilead, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into the hand
of the king.

18:12 And the messenger that went to call Micaiah spake to him,
saying, Behold, the words of the prophets declare good to the king
with one assent; let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like one of
their's, and speak thou good.

18:13 And Micaiah said, As the LORD liveth, even what my God saith,
that will I speak.

18:14 And when he was come to the king, the king said unto him,
Micaiah, shall we go to Ramothgilead to battle, or shall I forbear?
And he said, Go ye up, and prosper, and they shall be delivered into
your hand.

18:15 And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure thee
that thou say nothing but the truth to me in the name of the LORD?
18:16 Then he said, I did see all Israel scattered upon the mountains,
as sheep that have no shepherd: and the LORD said, These have no
master; let them return therefore every man to his house in peace.

18:17 And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee
that he would not prophesy good unto me, but evil?  18:18 Again he
said, Therefore hear the word of the LORD; I saw the LORD sitting upon
his throne, and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and
on his left.

18:19 And the LORD said, Who shall entice Ahab king of Israel, that he
may go up and fall at Ramothgilead? And one spake saying after this
manner, and another saying after that manner.

18:20 Then there came out a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and
said, I will entice him. And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith?  18:21
And he said, I will go out, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all
his prophets. And the Lord said, Thou shalt entice him, and thou shalt
also prevail: go out, and do even so.

18:22 Now therefore, behold, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in the
mouth of these thy prophets, and the LORD hath spoken evil against
thee.

18:23 Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and smote Micaiah
upon the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the LORD from
me to speak unto thee?  18:24 And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see
on that day when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.

18:25 Then the king of Israel said, Take ye Micaiah, and carry him
back to Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king's son;
18:26 And say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and
feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until
I return in peace.

18:27 And Micaiah said, If thou certainly return in peace, then hath
not the LORD spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, all ye people.

18:28 So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up
to Ramothgilead.

18:29 And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise
myself, and I will go to the battle; but put thou on thy robes. So the
king of Israel disguised himself; and they went to the battle.

18:30 Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of the chariots
that were with him, saying, Fight ye not with small or great, save
only with the king of Israel.

18:31 And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw
Jehoshaphat, that they said, It is the king of Israel. Therefore they
compassed about him to fight: but Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORD
helped him; and God moved them to depart from him.

18:32 For it came to pass, that, when the captains of the chariots
perceived that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back again
from pursuing him.

18:33 And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of
Israel between the joints of the harness: therefore he said to his
chariot man, Turn thine hand, that thou mayest carry me out of the
host; for I am wounded.

18:34 And the battle increased that day: howbeit the king of Israel
stayed himself up in his chariot against the Syrians until the even:
and about the time of the sun going down he died.

19:1 And Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned to his house in peace
to Jerusalem.

19:2 And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him, and
said to king Jehoshaphat, Shouldest thou help the ungodly, and love
them that hate the LORD? therefore is wrath upon thee from before the
LORD.

19:3 Nevertheless there are good things found in thee, in that thou
hast taken away the groves out of the land, and hast prepared thine
heart to seek God.

19:4 And Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem: and he went out again through
the people from Beersheba to mount Ephraim, and brought them back unto
the LORD God of their fathers.

19:5 And he set judges in the land throughout all the fenced cities of
Judah, city by city, 19:6 And said to the judges, Take heed what ye
do: for ye judge not for man, but for the LORD, who is with you in the
judgment.

19:7 Wherefore now let the fear of the LORD be upon you; take heed and
do it: for there is no iniquity with the LORD our God, nor respect of
persons, nor taking of gifts.

19:8 Moreover in Jerusalem did Jehoshaphat set of the Levites, and of
the priests, and of the chief of the fathers of Israel, for the
judgment of the LORD, and for controversies, when they returned to
Jerusalem.

19:9 And he charged them, saying, Thus shall ye do in the fear of the
LORD, faithfully, and with a perfect heart.

19:10 And what cause soever shall come to you of your brethren that
dwell in your cities, between blood and blood, between law and
commandment, statutes and judgments, ye shall even warn them that they
trespass not against the LORD, and so wrath come upon you, and upon
your brethren: this do, and ye shall not trespass.

19:11 And, behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you in all matters
of the LORD; and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house
of Judah, for all the king's matters: also the Levites shall be
officers before you. Deal courageously, and the LORD shall be with the
good.

20:1 It came to pass after this also, that the children of Moab, and
the children of Ammon, and with them other beside the Ammonites, came
against Jehoshaphat to battle.

20:2 Then there came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, There cometh
a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea on this side Syria;
and, behold, they be in Hazazontamar, which is Engedi.

20:3 And Jehoshaphat feared, and set himself to seek the LORD, and
proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah.

20:4 And Judah gathered themselves together, to ask help of the LORD:
even out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek the LORD.

20:5 And Jehoshaphat stood in the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem,
in the house of the LORD, before the new court, 20:6 And said, O LORD
God of our fathers, art not thou God in heaven? and rulest not thou
over all the kingdoms of the heathen? and in thine hand is there not
power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee?  20:7 Art not
thou our God, who didst drive out the inhabitants of this land before
thy people Israel, and gavest it to the seed of Abraham thy friend for
ever?  20:8 And they dwelt therein, and have built thee a sanctuary
therein for thy name, saying, 20:9 If, when evil cometh upon us, as
the sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we stand before this
house, and in thy presence, (for thy name is in this house,) and cry
unto thee in our affliction, then thou wilt hear and help.

20:10 And now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and mount Seir,
whom thou wouldest not let Israel invade, when they came out of the
land of Egypt, but they turned from them, and destroyed them not;
20:11 Behold, I say, how they reward us, to come to cast us out of thy
possession, which thou hast given us to inherit.

20:12 O our God, wilt thou not judge them? for we have no might
against this great company that cometh against us; neither know we
what to do: but our eyes are upon thee.

20:13 And all Judah stood before the LORD, with their little ones,
their wives, and their children.

20:14 Then upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the
son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph,
came the Spirit of the LORD in the midst of the congregation; 20:15
And he said, Hearken ye, all Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem,
and thou king Jehoshaphat, Thus saith the LORD unto you, Be not afraid
nor dismayed by reason of this great multitude; for the battle is not
yours, but God's.

20:16 To morrow go ye down against them: behold, they come up by the
cliff of Ziz; and ye shall find them at the end of the brook, before
the wilderness of Jeruel.

20:17 Ye shall not need to fight in this battle: set yourselves, stand
ye still, and see the salvation of the LORD with you, O Judah and
Jerusalem: fear not, nor be dismayed; to morrow go out against them:
for the LORD will be with you.

20:18 And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground: and
all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before the LORD,
worshipping the LORD.

20:19 And the Levites, of the children of the Kohathites, and of the
children of the Korhites, stood up to praise the LORD God of Israel
with a loud voice on high.

20:20 And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into the
wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and
said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem; Believe in
the LORD your God, so shall ye be established; believe his prophets,
so shall ye prosper.

20:21 And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed singers
unto the LORD, and that should praise the beauty of holiness, as they
went out before the army, and to say, Praise the LORD; for his mercy
endureth for ever.

20:22 And when they began to sing and to praise, the LORD set
ambushments against the children of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, which
were come against Judah; and they were smitten.

20:23 For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against the
inhabitants of mount Seir, utterly to slay and destroy them: and when
they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, every one helped to
destroy another.

20:24 And when Judah came toward the watch tower in the wilderness,
they looked unto the multitude, and, behold, they were dead bodies
fallen to the earth, and none escaped.

20:25 And when Jehoshaphat and his people came to take away the spoil
of them, they found among them in abundance both riches with the dead
bodies, and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves,
more than they could carry away: and they were three days in gathering
of the spoil, it was so much.

20:26 And on the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of
Berachah; for there they blessed the LORD: therefore the name of the
same place was called, The valley of Berachah, unto this day.

20:27 Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and
Jehoshaphat in the forefront of them, to go again to Jerusalem with
joy; for the LORD had made them to rejoice over their enemies.

20:28 And they came to Jerusalem with psalteries and harps and
trumpets unto the house of the LORD.

20:29 And the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of those countries,
when they had heard that the LORD fought against the enemies of
Israel.

20:30 So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet: for his God gave him rest
round about.

20:31 And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah: he was thirty and five years
old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and five years in
Jerusalem.

And his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.

20:32 And he walked in the way of Asa his father, and departed not
from it, doing that which was right in the sight of the LORD.

20:33 Howbeit the high places were not taken away: for as yet the
people had not prepared their hearts unto the God of their fathers.

20:34 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first and last, behold,
they are written in the book of Jehu the son of Hanani, who is
mentioned in the book of the kings of Israel.

20:35 And after this did Jehoshaphat king of Judah join himself with
Ahaziah king of Israel, who did very wickedly: 20:36 And he joined
himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish: and they made the
ships in Eziongaber.

20:37 Then Eliezer the son of Dodavah of Mareshah prophesied against
Jehoshaphat, saying, Because thou hast joined thyself with Ahaziah,
the LORD hath broken thy works. And the ships were broken, that they
were not able to go to Tarshish.

21:1 Now Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his
fathers in the city of David. And Jehoram his son reigned in his
stead.

21:2 And he had brethren the sons of Jehoshaphat, Azariah, and Jehiel,
and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah: all these
were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel.

21:3 And their father gave them great gifts of silver, and of gold,
and of precious things, with fenced cities in Judah: but the kingdom
gave he to Jehoram; because he was the firstborn.

21:4 Now when Jehoram was risen up to the kingdom of his father, he
strengthened himself, and slew all his brethren with the sword, and
divers also of the princes of Israel.

21:5 Jehoram was thirty and two years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.

21:6 And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, like as did the
house of Ahab: for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife: and he wrought
that which was evil in the eyes of the LORD.

21:7 Howbeit the LORD would not destroy the house of David, because of
the covenant that he had made with David, and as he promised to give a
light to him and to his sons for ever.

21:8 In his days the Edomites revolted from under the dominion of
Judah, and made themselves a king.

21:9 Then Jehoram went forth with his princes, and all his chariots
with him: and he rose up by night, and smote the Edomites which
compassed him in, and the captains of the chariots.

21:10 So the Edomites revolted from under the hand of Judah unto this
day.

The same time also did Libnah revolt from under his hand; because he
had forsaken the LORD God of his fathers.

21:11 Moreover he made high places in the mountains of Judah and
caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to commit fornication, and
compelled Judah thereto.

21:12 And there came a writing to him from Elijah the prophet, saying,
Thus saith the LORD God of David thy father, Because thou hast not
walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat thy father, nor in the ways of Asa
king of Judah, 21:13 But hast walked in the way of the kings of
Israel, and hast made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to go a
whoring, like to the whoredoms of the house of Ahab, and also hast
slain thy brethren of thy father's house, which were better than
thyself: 21:14 Behold, with a great plague will the LORD smite thy
people, and thy children, and thy wives, and all thy goods: 21:15 And
thou shalt have great sickness by disease of thy bowels, until thy
bowels fall out by reason of the sickness day by day.

21:16 Moreover the LORD stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the
Philistines, and of the Arabians, that were near the Ethiopians: 21:17
And they came up into Judah, and brake into it, and carried away all
the substance that was found in the king's house, and his sons also,
and his wives; so that there was never a son left him, save Jehoahaz,
the youngest of his sons.

21:18 And after all this the LORD smote him in his bowels with an
incurable disease.

21:19 And it came to pass, that in process of time, after the end of
two years, his bowels fell out by reason of his sickness: so he died
of sore diseases. And his people made no burning for him, like the
burning of his fathers.

21:20 Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign, and he
reigned in Jerusalem eight years, and departed without being desired.
Howbeit they buried him in the city of David, but not in the
sepulchres of the kings.

22:1 And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah his youngest son
king in his stead: for the band of men that came with the Arabians to
the camp had slain all the eldest. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king
of Judah reigned.

22:2 Forty and two years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign, and
he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Athaliah
the daughter of Omri.

22:3 He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab: for his mother
was his counsellor to do wickedly.

22:4 Wherefore he did evil in the sight of the LORD like the house of
Ahab: for they were his counsellors after the death of his father to
his destruction.

22:5 He walked also after their counsel, and went with Jehoram the son
of Ahab king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Syria at
Ramothgilead: and the Syrians smote Joram.

22:6 And he returned to be healed in Jezreel because of the wounds
which were given him at Ramah, when he fought with Hazael king of
Syria. And Azariah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see
Jehoram the son of Ahab at Jezreel, because he was sick.

22:7 And the destruction of Ahaziah was of God by coming to Joram: for
when he was come, he went out with Jehoram against Jehu the son of
Nimshi, whom the LORD had anointed to cut off the house of Ahab.

22:8 And it came to pass, that, when Jehu was executing judgment upon
the house of Ahab, and found the princes of Judah, and the sons of the
brethren of Ahaziah, that ministered to Ahaziah, he slew them.

22:9 And he sought Ahaziah: and they caught him, (for he was hid in
Samaria,) and brought him to Jehu: and when they had slain him, they
buried him: Because, said they, he is the son of Jehoshaphat, who
sought the LORD with all his heart. So the house of Ahaziah had no
power to keep still the kingdom.

22:10 But when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was
dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal of the house of
Judah.

22:11 But Jehoshabeath, the daughter of the king, took Joash the son
of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king's sons that were slain,
and put him and his nurse in a bedchamber. So Jehoshabeath, the
daughter of king Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest, (for she
was the sister of Ahaziah,) hid him from Athaliah, so that she slew
him not.

22:12 And he was with them hid in the house of God six years: and
Athaliah reigned over the land.

23:1 And in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took
the captains of hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael the
son of Jehohanan, and Azariah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son of
Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into covenant with him.

23:2 And they went about in Judah, and gathered the Levites out of all
the cities of Judah, and the chief of the fathers of Israel, and they
came to Jerusalem.

23:3 And all the congregation made a covenant with the king in the
house of God. And he said unto them, Behold, the king's son shall
reign, as the LORD hath said of the sons of David.

23:4 This is the thing that ye shall do; A third part of you entering
on the sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be porters of
the doors; 23:5 And a third part shall be at the king's house; and a
third part at the gate of the foundation: and all the people shall be
in the courts of the house of the LORD.

23:6 But let none come into the house of the LORD, save the priests,
and they that minister of the Levites; they shall go in, for they are
holy: but all the people shall keep the watch of the LORD.

23:7 And the Levites shall compass the king round about, every man
with his weapons in his hand; and whosoever else cometh into the
house, he shall be put to death: but be ye with the king when he
cometh in, and when he goeth out.

23:8 So the Levites and all Judah did according to all things that
Jehoiada the priest had commanded, and took every man his men that
were to come in on the sabbath, with them that were to go out on the
sabbath: for Jehoiada the priest dismissed not the courses.

23:9 Moreover Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of
hundreds spears, and bucklers, and shields, that had been king
David's, which were in the house of God.

23:10 And he set all the people, every man having his weapon in his
hand, from the right side of the temple to the left side of the
temple, along by the altar and the temple, by the king round about.

23:11 Then they brought out the king's son, and put upon him the
crown, and gave him the testimony, and made him king. And Jehoiada and
his sons anointed him, and said, God save the king.

23:12 Now when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and
praising the king, she came to the people into the house of the LORD:
23:13 And she looked, and, behold, the king stood at his pillar at the
entering in, and the princes and the trumpets by the king: and all the
people of the land rejoiced, and sounded with trumpets, also the
singers with instruments of musick, and such as taught to sing praise.
Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason, Treason.

23:14 Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds
that were set over the host, and said unto them, Have her forth of the
ranges: and whoso followeth her, let him be slain with the sword. For
the priest said, Slay her not in the house of the LORD.

23:15 So they laid hands on her; and when she was come to the entering
of the horse gate by the king's house, they slew her there.

23:16 And Jehoiada made a covenant between him, and between all the
people, and between the king, that they should be the LORD's people.

23:17 Then all the people went to the house of Baal, and brake it
down, and brake his altars and his images in pieces, and slew Mattan
the priest of Baal before the altars.

23:18 Also Jehoiada appointed the offices of the house of the LORD by
the hand of the priests the Levites, whom David had distributed in the
house of the LORD, to offer the burnt offerings of the LORD, as it is
written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, as it
was ordained by David.

23:19 And he set the porters at the gates of the house of the LORD,
that none which was unclean in any thing should enter in.

23:20 And he took the captains of hundreds, and the nobles, and the
governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought
down the king from the house of the LORD: and they came through the
high gate into the king's house, and set the king upon the throne of
the kingdom.

23:21 And all the people of the land rejoiced: and the city was quiet,
after that they had slain Athaliah with the sword.

24:1 Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Zibiah of
Beersheba.

24:2 And Joash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD all
the days of Jehoiada the priest.

24:3 And Jehoiada took for him two wives; and he begat sons and
daughters.

24:4 And it came to pass after this, that Joash was minded to repair
the house of the LORD.

24:5 And he gathered together the priests and the Levites, and said to
them, Go out unto the cities of Judah, and gather of all Israel money
to repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that ye
hasten the matter. Howbeit the Levites hastened it not.

24:6 And the king called for Jehoiada the chief, and said unto him,
Why hast thou not required of the Levites to bring in out of Judah and
out of Jerusalem the collection, according to the commandment of Moses
the servant of the LORD, and of the congregation of Israel, for the
tabernacle of witness?  24:7 For the sons of Athaliah, that wicked
woman, had broken up the house of God; and also all the dedicated
things of the house of the LORD did they bestow upon Baalim.

24:8 And at the king's commandment they made a chest, and set it
without at the gate of the house of the LORD.

24:9 And they made a proclamation through Judah and Jerusalem, to
bring in to the LORD the collection that Moses the servant of God laid
upon Israel in the wilderness.

24:10 And all the princes and all the people rejoiced, and brought in,
and cast into the chest, until they had made an end.

24:11 Now it came to pass, that at what time the chest was brought
unto the king's office by the hand of the Levites, and when they saw
that there was much money, the king's scribe and the high priest's
officer came and emptied the chest, and took it, and carried it to his
place again. Thus they did day by day, and gathered money in
abundance.

24:12 And the king and Jehoiada gave it to such as did the work of the
service of the house of the LORD, and hired masons and carpenters to
repair the house of the LORD, and also such as wrought iron and brass
to mend the house of the LORD.

24:13 So the workmen wrought, and the work was perfected by them, and
they set the house of God in his state, and strengthened it.

24:14 And when they had finished it, they brought the rest of the
money before the king and Jehoiada, whereof were made vessels for the
house of the LORD, even vessels to minister, and to offer withal, and
spoons, and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burnt
offerings in the house of the LORD continually all the days of
Jehoiada.

24:15 But Jehoiada waxed old, and was full of days when he died; an
hundred and thirty years old was he when he died.

24:16 And they buried him in the city of David among the kings,
because he had done good in Israel, both toward God, and toward his
house.

24:17 Now after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judah, and
made obeisance to the king. Then the king hearkened unto them.

24:18 And they left the house of the LORD God of their fathers, and
served groves and idols: and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for
this their trespass.

24:19 Yet he sent prophets to them, to bring them again unto the LORD;
and they testified against them: but they would not give ear.

24:20 And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiada
the priest, which stood above the people, and said unto them, Thus
saith God, Why transgress ye the commandments of the LORD, that ye
cannot prosper? because ye have forsaken the LORD, he hath also
forsaken you.

24:21 And they conspired against him, and stoned him with stones at
the commandment of the king in the court of the house of the LORD.

24:22 Thus Joash the king remembered not the kindness which Jehoiada
his father had done to him, but slew his son. And when he died, he
said, The LORD look upon it, and require it.

24:23 And it came to pass at the end of the year, that the host of
Syria came up against him: and they came to Judah and Jerusalem, and
destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and
sent all the spoil of them unto the king of Damascus.

24:24 For the army of the Syrians came with a small company of men,
and the LORD delivered a very great host into their hand, because they
had forsaken the LORD God of their fathers. So they executed judgment
against Joash.

24:25 And when they were departed from him, (for they left him in
great diseases,) his own servants conspired against him for the blood
of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and slew him on his bed, and he
died: and they buried him in the city of David, but they buried him
not in the sepulchres of the kings.

24:26 And these are they that conspired against him; Zabad the son of
Shimeath an Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith a Moabitess.

24:27 Now concerning his sons, and the greatness of the burdens laid
upon him, and the repairing of the house of God, behold, they are
written in the story of the book of the kings. And Amaziah his son
reigned in his stead.

25:1 Amaziah was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name
was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.

25:2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, but not
with a perfect heart.

25:3 Now it came to pass, when the kingdom was established to him,
that he slew his servants that had killed the king his father.

25:4 But he slew not their children, but did as it is written in the
law in the book of Moses, where the LORD commanded, saying, The
fathers shall not die for the children, neither shall the children die
for the fathers, but every man shall die for his own sin.

25:5 Moreover Amaziah gathered Judah together, and made them captains
over thousands, and captains over hundreds, according to the houses of
their fathers, throughout all Judah and Benjamin: and he numbered them
from twenty years old and above, and found them three hundred thousand
choice men, able to go forth to war, that could handle spear and
shield.

25:6 He hired also an hundred thousand mighty men of valour out of
Israel for an hundred talents of silver.

25:7 But there came a man of God to him, saying, O king, let not the
army of Israel go with thee; for the LORD is not with Israel, to wit,
with all the children of Ephraim.

25:8 But if thou wilt go, do it; be strong for the battle: God shall
make thee fall before the enemy: for God hath power to help, and to
cast down.

25:9 And Amaziah said to the man of God, But what shall we do for the
hundred talents which I have given to the army of Israel? And the man
of God answered, The LORD is able to give thee much more than this.

25:10 Then Amaziah separated them, to wit, the army that was come to
him out of Ephraim, to go home again: wherefore their anger was
greatly kindled against Judah, and they returned home in great anger.

25:11 And Amaziah strengthened himself, and led forth his people, and
went to the valley of salt, and smote of the children of Seir ten
thousand.

25:12 And other ten thousand left alive did the children of Judah
carry away captive, and brought them unto the top of the rock, and
cast them down from the top of the rock, that they all were broken in
pieces.

25:13 But the soldiers of the army which Amaziah sent back, that they
should not go with him to battle, fell upon the cities of Judah, from
Samaria even unto Bethhoron, and smote three thousand of them, and
took much spoil.

25:14 Now it came to pass, after that Amaziah was come from the
slaughter of the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the children of
Seir, and set them up to be his gods, and bowed down himself before
them, and burned incense unto them.

25:15 Wherefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against Amaziah, and
he sent unto him a prophet, which said unto him, Why hast thou sought
after the gods of the people, which could not deliver their own people
out of thine hand?  25:16 And it came to pass, as he talked with him,
that the king said unto him, Art thou made of the king's counsel?
forbear; why shouldest thou be smitten? Then the prophet forbare, and
said, I know that God hath determined to destroy thee, because thou
hast done this, and hast not hearkened unto my counsel.

25:17 Then Amaziah king of Judah took advice, and sent to Joash, the
son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us
see one another in the face.

25:18 And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying,
The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon,
saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed by a
wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trode down the thistle.

25:19 Thou sayest, Lo, thou hast smitten the Edomites; and thine heart
lifteth thee up to boast: abide now at home; why shouldest thou meddle
to thine hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah with
thee?  25:20 But Amaziah would not hear; for it came of God, that he
might deliver them into the hand of their enemies, because they sought
after the gods of Edom.

25:21 So Joash the king of Israel went up; and they saw one another in
the face, both he and Amaziah king of Judah, at Bethshemesh, which
belongeth to Judah.

25:22 And Judah was put to the worse before Israel, and they fled
every man to his tent.

25:23 And Joash the king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son
of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, at Bethshemesh, and brought him to
Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of
Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.

25:24 And he took all the gold and the silver, and all the vessels
that were found in the house of God with Obededom, and the treasures
of the king's house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria.

25:25 And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death
of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.

25:26 Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, first and last, behold, are
they not written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel?  25:27
Now after the time that Amaziah did turn away from following the LORD
they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and he fled to
Lachish: but they sent to Lachish after him, and slew him there.

25:28 And they brought him upon horses, and buried him with his
fathers in the city of Judah.

26:1 Then all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years
old, and made him king in the room of his father Amaziah.

26:2 He built Eloth, and restored it to Judah, after that the king
slept with his fathers.

26:3 Sixteen years old was Uzziah when he began to reign, and he
reigned fifty and two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was
Jecoliah of Jerusalem.

26:4 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father Amaziah did.

26:5 And he sought God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding
in the visions of God: and as long as he sought the LORD, God made him
to prosper.

26:6 And he went forth and warred against the Philistines, and brake
down the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod,
and built cities about Ashdod, and among the Philistines.

26:7 And God helped him against the Philistines, and against the
Arabians that dwelt in Gurbaal, and the Mehunims.

26:8 And the Ammonites gave gifts to Uzziah: and his name spread
abroad even to the entering in of Egypt; for he strengthened himself
exceedingly.

26:9 Moreover Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate, and
at the valley gate, and at the turning of the wall, and fortified
them.

26:10 Also he built towers in the desert, and digged many wells: for
he had much cattle, both in the low country, and in the plains:
husbandmen also, and vine dressers in the mountains, and in Carmel:
for he loved husbandry.

26:11 Moreover Uzziah had an host of fighting men, that went out to
war by bands, according to the number of their account by the hand of
Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the ruler, under the hand of Hananiah,
one of the king's captains.

26:12 The whole number of the chief of the fathers of the mighty men
of valour were two thousand and six hundred.

26:13 And under their hand was an army, three hundred thousand and
seven thousand and five hundred, that made war with mighty power, to
help the king against the enemy.

26:14 And Uzziah prepared for them throughout all the host shields,
and spears, and helmets, and habergeons, and bows, and slings to cast
stones.

26:15 And he made in Jerusalem engines, invented by cunning men, to be
on the towers and upon the bulwarks, to shoot arrows and great stones
withal.

And his name spread far abroad; for he was marvellously helped, till
he was strong.

26:16 But when he was strong, his heart was lifted up to his
destruction: for he transgressed against the LORD his God, and went
into the temple of the LORD to burn incense upon the altar of incense.

26:17 And Azariah the priest went in after him, and with him fourscore
priests of the LORD, that were valiant men: 26:18 And they withstood
Uzziah the king, and said unto him, It appertaineth not unto thee,
Uzziah, to burn incense unto the LORD, but to the priests the sons of
Aaron, that are consecrated to burn incense: go out of the sanctuary;
for thou hast trespassed; neither shall it be for thine honour from
the LORD God.

26:19 Then Uzziah was wroth, and had a censer in his hand to burn
incense: and while he was wroth with the priests, the leprosy even
rose up in his forehead before the priests in the house of the LORD,
from beside the incense altar.

26:20 And Azariah the chief priest, and all the priests, looked upon
him, and, behold, he was leprous in his forehead, and they thrust him
out from thence; yea, himself hasted also to go out, because the LORD
had smitten him.

26:21 And Uzziah the king was a leper unto the day of his death, and
dwelt in a several house, being a leper; for he was cut off from the
house of the LORD: and Jotham his son was over the king's house,
judging the people of the land.

26:22 Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first and last, did Isaiah
the prophet, the son of Amoz, write.

26:23 So Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his
fathers in the field of the burial which belonged to the kings; for
they said, He is a leper: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.

27:1 Jotham was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and
he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was
Jerushah, the daughter of Zadok.

27:2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that his father Uzziah did: howbeit he entered not
into the temple of the LORD. And the people did yet corruptly.

27:3 He built the high gate of the house of the LORD, and on the wall
of Ophel he built much.

27:4 Moreover he built cities in the mountains of Judah, and in the
forests he built castles and towers.

27:5 He fought also with the king of the Ammonites, and prevailed
against them. And the children of Ammon gave him the same year an
hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand measures of wheat, and ten
thousand of barley. So much did the children of Ammon pay unto him,
both the second year, and the third.

27:6 So Jotham became mighty, because he prepared his ways before the
LORD his God.

27:7 Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars, and his
ways, lo, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and
Judah.

27:8 He was five and twenty years old when he began to reign, and
reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem.

27:9 And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the
city of David: and Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.

28:1 Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
sixteen years in Jerusalem: but he did not that which was right in the
sight of the LORD, like David his father: 28:2 For he walked in the
ways of the kings of Israel, and made also molten images for Baalim.

28:3 Moreover he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom, and
burnt his children in the fire, after the abominations of the heathen
whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel.

28:4 He sacrificed also and burnt incense in the high places, and on
the hills, and under every green tree.

28:5 Wherefore the LORD his God delivered him into the hand of the
king of Syria; and they smote him, and carried away a great multitude
of them captives, and brought them to Damascus. And he was also
delivered into the hand of the king of Israel, who smote him with a
great slaughter.

28:6 For Pekah the son of Remaliah slew in Judah an hundred and twenty
thousand in one day, which were all valiant men; because they had
forsaken the LORD God of their fathers.

28:7 And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, slew Maaseiah the king's
son, and Azrikam the governor of the house, and Elkanah that was next
to the king.

28:8 And the children of Israel carried away captive of their brethren
two hundred thousand, women, sons, and daughters, and took also away
much spoil from them, and brought the spoil to Samaria.

28:9 But a prophet of the LORD was there, whose name was Oded: and he
went out before the host that came to Samaria, and said unto them,
Behold, because the LORD God of your fathers was wroth with Judah, he
hath delivered them into your hand, and ye have slain them in a rage
that reacheth up unto heaven.

28:10 And now ye purpose to keep under the children of Judah and
Jerusalem for bondmen and bondwomen unto you: but are there not with
you, even with you, sins against the LORD your God?  28:11 Now hear me
therefore, and deliver the captives again, which ye have taken captive
of your brethren: for the fierce wrath of the LORD is upon you.

28:12 Then certain of the heads of the children of Ephraim, Azariah
the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiah
the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai, stood up against them
that came from the war, 28:13 And said unto them, Ye shall not bring
in the captives hither: for whereas we have offended against the LORD
already, ye intend to add more to our sins and to our trespass: for
our trespass is great, and there is fierce wrath against Israel.

28:14 So the armed men left the captives and the spoil before the
princes and all the congregation.

28:15 And the men which were expressed by name rose up, and took the
captives, and with the spoil clothed all that were naked among them,
and arrayed them, and shod them, and gave them to eat and to drink,
and anointed them, and carried all the feeble of them upon asses, and
brought them to Jericho, the city of palm trees, to their brethren:
then they returned to Samaria.

28:16 At that time did king Ahaz send unto the kings of Assyria to
help him.

28:17 For again the Edomites had come and smitten Judah, and carried
away captives.

28:18 The Philistines also had invaded the cities of the low country,
and of the south of Judah, and had taken Bethshemesh, and Ajalon, and
Gederoth, and Shocho with the villages thereof, and Timnah with the
villages thereof, Gimzo also and the villages thereof: and they dwelt
there.

28:19 For the LORD brought Judah low because of Ahaz king of Israel;
for he made Judah naked, and transgressed sore against the LORD.

28:20 And Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria came unto him, and
distressed him, but strengthened him not.

28:21 For Ahaz took away a portion out of the house of the LORD, and
out of the house of the king, and of the princes, and gave it unto the
king of Assyria: but he helped him not.

28:22 And in the time of his distress did he trespass yet more against
the LORD: this is that king Ahaz.

28:23 For he sacrificed unto the gods of Damascus, which smote him:
and he said, Because the gods of the kings of Syria help them,
therefore will I sacrifice to them, that they may help me. But they
were the ruin of him, and of all Israel.

28:24 And Ahaz gathered together the vessels of the house of God, and
cut in pieces the vessels of the house of God, and shut up the doors
of the house of the LORD, and he made him altars in every corner of
Jerusalem.

28:25 And in every several city of Judah he made high places to burn
incense unto other gods, and provoked to anger the LORD God of his
fathers.

28:26 Now the rest of his acts and of all his ways, first and last,
behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

28:27 And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the
city, even in Jerusalem: but they brought him not into the sepulchres
of the kings of Israel: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.

29:1 Hezekiah began to reign when he was five and twenty years old,
and he reigned nine and twenty years in Jerusalem. And his mother's
name was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah.

29:2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD,
according to all that David his father had done.

29:3 He in the first year of his reign, in the first month, opened the
doors of the house of the LORD, and repaired them.

29:4 And he brought in the priests and the Levites, and gathered them
together into the east street, 29:5 And said unto them, Hear me, ye
Levites, sanctify now yourselves, and sanctify the house of the LORD
God of your fathers, and carry forth the filthiness out of the holy
place.

29:6 For our fathers have trespassed, and done that which was evil in
the eyes of the LORD our God, and have forsaken him, and have turned
away their faces from the habitation of the LORD, and turned their
backs.

29:7 Also they have shut up the doors of the porch, and put out the
lamps, and have not burned incense nor offered burnt offerings in the
holy place unto the God of Israel.

29:8 Wherefore the wrath of the LORD was upon Judah and Jerusalem, and
he hath delivered them to trouble, to astonishment, and to hissing, as
ye see with your eyes.

29:9 For, lo, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and
our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this.

29:10 Now it is in mine heart to make a covenant with the LORD God of
Israel, that his fierce wrath may turn away from us.

29:11 My sons, be not now negligent: for the LORD hath chosen you to
stand before him, to serve him, and that ye should minister unto him,
and burn incense.

29:12 Then the Levites arose, Mahath the son of Amasai, and Joel the
son of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites: and of the sons of
Merari, Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehalelel: and of
the Gershonites; Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah:
29:13 And of the sons of Elizaphan; Shimri, and Jeiel: and of the sons
of Asaph; Zechariah, and Mattaniah: 29:14 And of the sons of Heman;
Jehiel, and Shimei: and of the sons of Jeduthun; Shemaiah, and Uzziel.

29:15 And they gathered their brethren, and sanctified themselves, and
came, according to the commandment of the king, by the words of the
LORD, to cleanse the house of the LORD.

29:16 And the priests went into the inner part of the house of the
LORD, to cleanse it, and brought out all the uncleanness that they
found in the temple of the LORD into the court of the house of the
LORD. And the Levites took it, to carry it out abroad into the brook
Kidron.

29:17 Now they began on the first day of the first month to sanctify,
and on the eighth day of the month came they to the porch of the LORD:
so they sanctified the house of the LORD in eight days; and in the
sixteenth day of the first month they made an end.

29:18 Then they went in to Hezekiah the king, and said, We have
cleansed all the house of the LORD, and the altar of burnt offering,
with all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread table, with all the
vessels thereof.

29:19 Moreover all the vessels, which king Ahaz in his reign did cast
away in his transgression, have we prepared and sanctified, and,
behold, they are before the altar of the LORD.

29:20 Then Hezekiah the king rose early, and gathered the rulers of
the city, and went up to the house of the LORD.

29:21 And they brought seven bullocks, and seven rams, and seven
lambs, and seven he goats, for a sin offering for the kingdom, and for
the sanctuary, and for Judah. And he commanded the priests the sons of
Aaron to offer them on the altar of the LORD.

29:22 So they killed the bullocks, and the priests received the blood,
and sprinkled it on the altar: likewise, when they had killed the
rams, they sprinkled the blood upon the altar: they killed also the
lambs, and they sprinkled the blood upon the altar.

29:23 And they brought forth the he goats for the sin offering before
the king and the congregation; and they laid their hands upon them:
29:24 And the priests killed them, and they made reconciliation with
their blood upon the altar, to make an atonement for all Israel: for
the king commanded that the burnt offering and the sin offering should
be made for all Israel.

29:25 And he set the Levites in the house of the LORD with cymbals,
with psalteries, and with harps, according to the commandment of
David, and of Gad the king's seer, and Nathan the prophet: for so was
the commandment of the LORD by his prophets.

29:26 And the Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the
priests with the trumpets.

29:27 And Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offering upon the
altar.

And when the burnt offering began, the song of the LORD began also
with the trumpets, and with the instruments ordained by David king of
Israel.

29:28 And all the congregation worshipped, and the singers sang, and
the trumpeters sounded: and all this continued until the burnt
offering was finished.

29:29 And when they had made an end of offering, the king and all that
were present with him bowed themselves, and worshipped.

29:30 Moreover Hezekiah the king and the princes commanded the Levites
to sing praise unto the LORD with the words of David, and of Asaph the
seer. And they sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their heads
and worshipped.

29:31 Then Hezekiah answered and said, Now ye have consecrated
yourselves unto the LORD, come near and bring sacrifices and thank
offerings into the house of the LORD. And the congregation brought in
sacrifices and thank offerings; and as many as were of a free heart
burnt offerings.

29:32 And the number of the burnt offerings, which the congregation
brought, was threescore and ten bullocks, an hundred rams, and two
hundred lambs: all these were for a burnt offering to the LORD.

29:33 And the consecrated things were six hundred oxen and three
thousand sheep.

29:34 But the priests were too few, so that they could not flay all
the burnt offerings: wherefore their brethren the Levites did help
them, till the work was ended, and until the other priests had
sanctified themselves: for the Levites were more upright in heart to
sanctify themselves than the priests.

29:35 And also the burnt offerings were in abundance, with the fat of
the peace offerings, and the drink offerings for every burnt offering.
So the service of the house of the LORD was set in order.

29:36 And Hezekiah rejoiced, and all the people, that God had prepared
the people: for the thing was done suddenly.

30:1 And Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters also
to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of the
LORD at Jerusalem, to keep the passover unto the LORD God of Israel.

30:2 For the king had taken counsel, and his princes, and all the
congregation in Jerusalem, to keep the passover in the second month.

30:3 For they could not keep it at that time, because the priests had
not sanctified themselves sufficiently, neither had the people
gathered themselves together to Jerusalem.

30:4 And the thing pleased the king and all the congregation.

30:5 So they established a decree to make proclamation throughout all
Israel, from Beersheba even to Dan, that they should come to keep the
passover unto the LORD God of Israel at Jerusalem: for they had not
done it of a long time in such sort as it was written.

30:6 So the posts went with the letters from the king and his princes
throughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the commandment of
the king, saying, Ye children of Israel, turn again unto the LORD God
of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, and he will return to the remnant of
you, that are escaped out of the hand of the kings of Assyria.

30:7 And be not ye like your fathers, and like your brethren, which
trespassed against the LORD God of their fathers, who therefore gave
them up to desolation, as ye see.

30:8 Now be ye not stiffnecked, as your fathers were, but yield
yourselves unto the LORD, and enter into his sanctuary, which he hath
sanctified for ever: and serve the LORD your God, that the fierceness
of his wrath may turn away from you.

30:9 For if ye turn again unto the LORD, your brethren and your
children shall find compassion before them that lead them captive, so
that they shall come again into this land: for the LORD your God is
gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you, if ye
return unto him.

30:10 So the posts passed from city to city through the country of
Ephraim and Manasseh even unto Zebulun: but they laughed them to
scorn, and mocked them.

30:11 Nevertheless divers of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulun humbled
themselves, and came to Jerusalem.

30:12 Also in Judah the hand of God was to give them one heart to do
the commandment of the king and of the princes, by the word of the
LORD.

30:13 And there assembled at Jerusalem much people to keep the feast
of unleavened bread in the second month, a very great congregation.

30:14 And they arose and took away the altars that were in Jerusalem,
and all the altars for incense took they away, and cast them into the
brook Kidron.

30:15 Then they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the
second month: and the priests and the Levites were ashamed, and
sanctified themselves, and brought in the burnt offerings into the
house of the LORD.

30:16 And they stood in their place after their manner, according to
the law of Moses the man of God: the priests sprinkled the blood,
which they received of the hand of the Levites.

30:17 For there were many in the congregation that were not
sanctified: therefore the Levites had the charge of the killing of the
passovers for every one that was not clean, to sanctify them unto the
LORD.

30:18 For a multitude of the people, even many of Ephraim, and
Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet did
they eat the passover otherwise than it was written. But Hezekiah
prayed for them, saying, The good LORD pardon every one 30:19 That
prepareth his heart to seek God, the LORD God of his fathers, though
he be not cleansed according to the purification of the sanctuary.

30:20 And the LORD hearkened to Hezekiah, and healed the people.

30:21 And the children of Israel that were present at Jerusalem kept
the feast of unleavened bread seven days with great gladness: and the
Levites and the priests praised the LORD day by day, singing with loud
instruments unto the LORD.

30:22 And Hezekiah spake comfortably unto all the Levites that taught
the good knowledge of the LORD: and they did eat throughout the feast
seven days, offering peace offerings, and making confession to the
LORD God of their fathers.

30:23 And the whole assembly took counsel to keep other seven days:
and they kept other seven days with gladness.

30:24 For Hezekiah king of Judah did give to the congregation a
thousand bullocks and seven thousand sheep; and the princes gave to
the congregation a thousand bullocks and ten thousand sheep: and a
great number of priests sanctified themselves.

30:25 And all the congregation of Judah, with the priests and the
Levites, and all the congregation that came out of Israel, and the
strangers that came out of the land of Israel, and that dwelt in
Judah, rejoiced.

30:26 So there was great joy in Jerusalem: for since the time of
Solomon the son of David king of Israel there was not the like in
Jerusalem.

30:27 Then the priests the Levites arose and blessed the people: and
their voice was heard, and their prayer came up to his holy dwelling
place, even unto heaven.

31:1 Now when all this was finished, all Israel that were present went
out to the cities of Judah, and brake the images in pieces, and cut
down the groves, and threw down the high places and the altars out of
all Judah and Benjamin, in Ephraim also and Manasseh, until they had
utterly destroyed them all. Then all the children of Israel returned,
every man to his possession, into their own cities.

31:2 And Hezekiah appointed the courses of the priests and the Levites
after their courses, every man according to his service, the priests
and Levites for burnt offerings and for peace offerings, to minister,
and to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the tents of the
LORD.

31:3 He appointed also the king's portion of his substance for the
burnt offerings, to wit, for the morning and evening burnt offerings,
and the burnt offerings for the sabbaths, and for the new moons, and
for the set feasts, as it is written in the law of the LORD.

31:4 Moreover he commanded the people that dwelt in Jerusalem to give
the portion of the priests and the Levites, that they might be
encouraged in the law of the LORD.

31:5 And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of
Israel brought in abundance the firstfruits of corn, wine, and oil,
and honey, and of all the increase of the field; and the tithe of all
things brought they in abundantly.

31:6 And concerning the children of Israel and Judah, that dwelt in
the cities of Judah, they also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep,
and the tithe of holy things which were consecrated unto the LORD
their God, and laid them by heaps.

31:7 In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps,
and finished them in the seventh month.

31:8 And when Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they
blessed the LORD, and his people Israel.

31:9 Then Hezekiah questioned with the priests and the Levites
concerning the heaps.

31:10 And Azariah the chief priest of the house of Zadok answered him,
and said, Since the people began to bring the offerings into the house
of the LORD, we have had enough to eat, and have left plenty: for the
LORD hath blessed his people; and that which is left is this great
store.

31:11 Then Hezekiah commanded to prepare chambers in the house of the
LORD; and they prepared them, 31:12 And brought in the offerings and
the tithes and the dedicated things faithfully: over which Cononiah
the Levite was ruler, and Shimei his brother was the next.

31:13 And Jehiel, and Azaziah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth,
and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah, were
overseers under the hand of Cononiah and Shimei his brother, at the
commandment of Hezekiah the king, and Azariah the ruler of the house
of God.

31:14 And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the porter toward the
east, was over the freewill offerings of God, to distribute the
oblations of the LORD, and the most holy things.

31:15 And next him were Eden, and Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah,
Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the cities of the priests, in their set
office, to give to their brethren by courses, as well to the great as
to the small: 31:16 Beside their genealogy of males, from three years
old and upward, even unto every one that entereth into the house of
the LORD, his daily portion for their service in their charges
according to their courses; 31:17 Both to the genealogy of the priests
by the house of their fathers, and the Levites from twenty years old
and upward, in their charges by their courses; 31:18 And to the
genealogy of all their little ones, their wives, and their sons, and
their daughters, through all the congregation: for in their set office
they sanctified themselves in holiness: 31:19 Also of the sons of
Aaron the priests, which were in the fields of the suburbs of their
cities, in every several city, the men that were expressed by name, to
give portions to all the males among the priests, and to all that were
reckoned by genealogies among the Levites.

31:20 And thus did Hezekiah throughout all Judah, and wrought that
which was good and right and truth before the LORD his God.

31:21 And in every work that he began in the service of the house of
God, and in the law, and in the commandments, to seek his God, he did
it with all his heart, and prospered.

32:1 After these things, and the establishment thereof, Sennacherib
king of Assyria came, and entered into Judah, and encamped against the
fenced cities, and thought to win them for himself.

32:2 And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he was
purposed to fight against Jerusalem, 32:3 He took counsel with his
princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which
were without the city: and they did help him.

32:4 So there was gathered much people together, who stopped all the
fountains, and the brook that ran through the midst of the land,
saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come, and find much water?
32:5 Also he strengthened himself, and built up all the wall that was
broken, and raised it up to the towers, and another wall without, and
repaired Millo in the city of David, and made darts and shields in
abundance.

32:6 And he set captains of war over the people, and gathered them
together to him in the street of the gate of the city, and spake
comfortably to them, saying, 32:7 Be strong and courageous, be not
afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitude
that is with him: for there be more with us than with him: 32:8 With
him is an arm of flesh; but with us is the LORD our God to help us,
and to fight our battles. And the people rested themselves upon the
words of Hezekiah king of Judah.

32:9 After this did Sennacherib king of Assyria send his servants to
Jerusalem, (but he himself laid siege against Lachish, and all his
power with him,) unto Hezekiah king of Judah, and unto all Judah that
were at Jerusalem, saying, 32:10 Thus saith Sennacherib king of
Assyria, Whereon do ye trust, that ye abide in the siege in Jerusalem?
32:11 Doth not Hezekiah persuade you to give over yourselves to die by
famine and by thirst, saying, The LORD our God shall deliver us out of
the hand of the king of Assyria?  32:12 Hath not the same Hezekiah
taken away his high places and his altars, and commanded Judah and
Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall worship before one altar, and burn incense
upon it?  32:13 Know ye not what I and my fathers have done unto all
the people of other lands? were the gods of the nations of those lands
any ways able to deliver their lands out of mine hand?  32:14 Who was
there among all the gods of those nations that my fathers utterly
destroyed, that could deliver his people out of mine hand, that your
God should be able to deliver you out of mine hand?  32:15 Now
therefore let not Hezekiah deceive you, nor persuade you on this
manner, neither yet believe him: for no god of any nation or kingdom
was able to deliver his people out of mine hand, and out of the hand
of my fathers: how much less shall your God deliver you out of mine
hand?  32:16 And his servants spake yet more against the LORD God, and
against his servant Hezekiah.

32:17 He wrote also letters to rail on the LORD God of Israel, and to
speak against him, saying, As the gods of the nations of other lands
have not delivered their people out of mine hand, so shall not the God
of Hezekiah deliver his people out of mine hand.

32:18 Then they cried with a loud voice in the Jews' speech unto the
people of Jerusalem that were on the wall, to affright them, and to
trouble them; that they might take the city.

32:19 And they spake against the God of Jerusalem, as against the gods
of the people of the earth, which were the work of the hands of man.

32:20 And for this cause Hezekiah the king, and the prophet Isaiah the
son of Amoz, prayed and cried to heaven.

32:21 And the LORD sent an angel, which cut off all the mighty men of
valour, and the leaders and captains in the camp of the king of
Assyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. And when
he was come into the house of his god, they that came forth of his own
bowels slew him there with the sword.

32:22 Thus the LORD saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem
from the hand of Sennacherib the king of Assyria, and from the hand of
all other, and guided them on every side.

32:23 And many brought gifts unto the LORD to Jerusalem, and presents
to Hezekiah king of Judah: so that he was magnified in the sight of
all nations from thenceforth.

32:24 In those days Hezekiah was sick to the death, and prayed unto
the LORD: and he spake unto him, and he gave him a sign.

32:25 But Hezekiah rendered not again according to the benefit done
unto him; for his heart was lifted up: therefore there was wrath upon
him, and upon Judah and Jerusalem.

32:26 Notwithstanding Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his
heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of
the LORD came not upon them in the days of Hezekiah.

32:27 And Hezekiah had exceeding much riches and honour: and he made
himself treasuries for silver, and for gold, and for precious stones,
and for spices, and for shields, and for all manner of pleasant
jewels; 32:28 Storehouses also for the increase of corn, and wine, and
oil; and stalls for all manner of beasts, and cotes for flocks.

32:29 Moreover he provided him cities, and possessions of flocks and
herds in abundance: for God had given him substance very much.

32:30 This same Hezekiah also stopped the upper watercourse of Gihon,
and brought it straight down to the west side of the city of David.
And Hezekiah prospered in all his works.

32:31 Howbeit in the business of the ambassadors of the princes of
Babylon, who sent unto him to enquire of the wonder that was done in
the land, God left him, to try him, that he might know all that was in
his heart.

32:32 Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and his goodness, behold,
they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz,
and in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

32:33 And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the
chiefest of the sepulchres of the sons of David: and all Judah and the
inhabitants of Jerusalem did him honour at his death. And Manasseh his
son reigned in his stead.

33:1 Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he
reigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem: 33:2 But did that which was
evil in the sight of the LORD, like unto the abominations of the
heathen, whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel.

33:3 For he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had
broken down, and he reared up altars for Baalim, and made groves, and
worshipped all the host of heaven, and served them.

33:4 Also he built altars in the house of the LORD, whereof the LORD
had said, In Jerusalem shall my name be for ever.

33:5 And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts
of the house of the LORD.

33:6 And he caused his children to pass through the fire in the valley
of the son of Hinnom: also he observed times, and used enchantments,
and used witchcraft, and dealt with a familiar spirit, and with
wizards: he wrought much evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him
to anger.

33:7 And he set a carved image, the idol which he had made, in the
house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son,
In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen before all the
tribes of Israel, will I put my name for ever: 33:8 Neither will I any
more remove the foot of Israel from out of the land which I have
appointed for your fathers; so that they will take heed to do all that
I have commanded them, according to the whole law and the statutes and
the ordinances by the hand of Moses.

33:9 So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to err,
and to do worse than the heathen, whom the LORD had destroyed before
the children of Israel.

33:10 And the LORD spake to Manasseh, and to his people: but they
would not hearken.

33:11 Wherefore the LORD brought upon them the captains of the host of
the king of Assyria, which took Manasseh among the thorns, and bound
him with fetters, and carried him to Babylon.

33:12 And when he was in affliction, he besought the LORD his God, and
humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers, 33:13 And
prayed unto him: and he was intreated of him, and heard his
supplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom.
Then Manasseh knew that the LORD he was God.

33:14 Now after this he built a wall without the city of David, on the
west side of Gihon, in the valley, even to the entering in at the fish
gate, and compassed about Ophel, and raised it up a very great height,
and put captains of war in all the fenced cities of Judah.

33:15 And he took away the strange gods, and the idol out of the house
of the LORD, and all the altars that he had built in the mount of the
house of the LORD, and in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city.

33:16 And he repaired the altar of the LORD, and sacrificed thereon
peace offerings and thank offerings, and commanded Judah to serve the
LORD God of Israel.

33:17 Nevertheless the people did sacrifice still in the high places,
yet unto the LORD their God only.

33:18 Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and his prayer unto his
God, and the words of the seers that spake to him in the name of the
LORD God of Israel, behold, they are written in the book of the kings
of Israel.

33:19 His prayer also, and how God was intreated of him, and all his
sins, and his trespass, and the places wherein he built high places,
and set up groves and graven images, before he was humbled: behold,
they are written among the sayings of the seers.

33:20 So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his
own house: and Amon his son reigned in his stead.

33:21 Amon was two and twenty years old when he began to reign, and
reigned two years in Jerusalem.

33:22 But he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as did
Manasseh his father: for Amon sacrificed unto all the carved images
which Manasseh his father had made, and served them; 33:23 And humbled
not himself before the LORD, as Manasseh his father had humbled
himself; but Amon trespassed more and more.

33:24 And his servants conspired against him, and slew him in his own
house.

33:25 But the people of the land slew all them that had conspired
against king Amon; and the people of the land made Josiah his son king
in his stead.

34:1 Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned
in Jerusalem one and thirty years.

34:2 And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, and
walked in the ways of David his father, and declined neither to the
right hand, nor to the left.

34:3 For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he
began to seek after the God of David his father: and in the twelfth
year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, and
the groves, and the carved images, and the molten images.

34:4 And they brake down the altars of Baalim in his presence; and the
images, that were on high above them, he cut down; and the groves, and
the carved images, and the molten images, he brake in pieces, and made
dust of them, and strowed it upon the graves of them that had
sacrificed unto them.

34:5 And he burnt the bones of the priests upon their altars, and
cleansed Judah and Jerusalem.

34:6 And so did he in the cities of Manasseh, and Ephraim, and Simeon,
even unto Naphtali, with their mattocks round about.

34:7 And when he had broken down the altars and the groves, and had
beaten the graven images into powder, and cut down all the idols
throughout all the land of Israel, he returned to Jerusalem.

34:8 Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the
land, and the house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah
the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, to
repair the house of the LORD his God.

34:9 And when they came to Hilkiah the high priest, they delivered the
money that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites that
kept the doors had gathered of the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, and
of all the remnant of Israel, and of all Judah and Benjamin; and they
returned to Jerusalem.

34:10 And they put it in the hand of the workmen that had the
oversight of the house of the LORD, and they gave it to the workmen
that wrought in the house of the LORD, to repair and amend the house:
34:11 Even to the artificers and builders gave they it, to buy hewn
stone, and timber for couplings, and to floor the houses which the
kings of Judah had destroyed.

34:12 And the men did the work faithfully: and the overseers of them
were Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites, of the sons of Merari; and
Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to set it
forward; and other of the Levites, all that could skill of instruments
of musick.

34:13 Also they were over the bearers of burdens, and were overseers
of all that wrought the work in any manner of service: and of the
Levites there were scribes, and officers, and porters.

34:14 And when they brought out the money that was brought into the
house of the LORD, Hilkiah the priest found a book of the law of the
LORD given by Moses.

34:15 And Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, I have
found the book of the law in the house of the LORD. And Hilkiah
delivered the book to Shaphan.

34:16 And Shaphan carried the book to the king, and brought the king
word back again, saying, All that was committed to thy servants, they
do it.

34:17 And they have gathered together the money that was found in the
house of the LORD, and have delivered it into the hand of the
overseers, and to the hand of the workmen.

34:18 Then Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the
priest hath given me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king.

34:19 And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the
law, that he rent his clothes.

34:20 And the king commanded Hilkiah, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan,
and Abdon the son of Micah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah a
servant of the king's, saying, 34:21 Go, enquire of the LORD for me,
and for them that are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the
words of the book that is found: for great is the wrath of the LORD
that is poured out upon us, because our fathers have not kept the word
of the LORD, to do after all that is written in this book.

34:22 And Hilkiah, and they that the king had appointed, went to
Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvath, the son
of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe; (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the
college:) and they spake to her to that effect.

34:23 And she answered them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Tell
ye the man that sent you to me, 34:24 Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I
will bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof,
even all the curses that are written in the book which they have read
before the king of Judah: 34:25 Because they have forsaken me, and
have burned incense unto other gods, that they might provoke me to
anger with all the works of their hands; therefore my wrath shall be
poured out upon this place, and shall not be quenched.

34:26 And as for the king of Judah, who sent you to enquire of the
LORD, so shall ye say unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel
concerning the words which thou hast heard; 34:27 Because thine heart
was tender, and thou didst humble thyself before God, when thou
heardest his words against this place, and against the inhabitants
thereof, and humbledst thyself before me, and didst rend thy clothes,
and weep before me; I have even heard thee also, saith the LORD.

34:28 Behold, I will gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shalt be
gathered to thy grave in peace, neither shall thine eyes see all the
evil that I will bring upon this place, and upon the inhabitants of
the same. So they brought the king word again.

34:29 Then the king sent and gathered together all the elders of Judah
and Jerusalem.

34:30 And the king went up into the house of the LORD, and all the men
of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the priests, and the
Levites, and all the people, great and small: and he read in their
ears all the words of the book of the covenant that was found in the
house of the LORD.

34:31 And the king stood in his place, and made a covenant before the
LORD, to walk after the LORD, and to keep his commandments, and his
testimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and with all his
soul, to perform the words of the covenant which are written in this
book.

34:32 And he caused all that were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin to
stand to it. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the
covenant of God, the God of their fathers.

34:33 And Josiah took away all the abominations out of all the
countries that pertained to the children of Israel, and made all that
were present in Israel to serve, even to serve the LORD their God. And
all his days they departed not from following the LORD, the God of
their fathers.

35:1 Moreover Josiah kept a passover unto the LORD in Jerusalem: and
they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month.

35:2 And he set the priests in their charges, and encouraged them to
the service of the house of the LORD, 35:3 And said unto the Levites
that taught all Israel, which were holy unto the LORD, Put the holy
ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel did
build; it shall not be a burden upon your shoulders: serve now the
LORD your God, and his people Israel, 35:4 And prepare yourselves by
the houses of your fathers, after your courses, according to the
writing of David king of Israel, and according to the writing of
Solomon his son.

35:5 And stand in the holy place according to the divisions of the
families of the fathers of your brethren the people, and after the
division of the families of the Levites.

35:6 So kill the passover, and sanctify yourselves, and prepare your
brethren, that they may do according to the word of the LORD by the
hand of Moses.

35:7 And Josiah gave to the people, of the flock, lambs and kids, all
for the passover offerings, for all that were present, to the number
of thirty thousand, and three thousand bullocks: these were of the
king's substance.

35:8 And his princes gave willingly unto the people, to the priests,
and to the Levites: Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel, rulers of the
house of God, gave unto the priests for the passover offerings two
thousand and six hundred small cattle and three hundred oxen.

35:9 Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethaneel, his brethren, and
Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, chief of the Levites, gave unto the
Levites for passover offerings five thousand small cattle, and five
hundred oxen.

35:10 So the service was prepared, and the priests stood in their
place, and the Levites in their courses, according to the king's
commandment.

35:11 And they killed the passover, and the priests sprinkled the
blood from their hands, and the Levites flayed them.

35:12 And they removed the burnt offerings, that they might give
according to the divisions of the families of the people, to offer
unto the LORD, as it is written in the book of Moses. And so did they
with the oxen.

35:13 And they roasted the passover with fire according to the
ordinance: but the other holy offerings sod they in pots, and in
caldrons, and in pans, and divided them speedily among all the people.

35:14 And afterward they made ready for themselves, and for the
priests: because the priests the sons of Aaron were busied in offering
of burnt offerings and the fat until night; therefore the Levites
prepared for themselves, and for the priests the sons of Aaron.

35:15 And the singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, according
to the commandment of David, and Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun the
king's seer; and the porters waited at every gate; they might not
depart from their service; for their brethren the Levites prepared for
them.

35:16 So all the service of the LORD was prepared the same day, to
keep the passover, and to offer burnt offerings upon the altar of the
LORD, according to the commandment of king Josiah.

35:17 And the children of Israel that were present kept the passover
at that time, and the feast of unleavened bread seven days.

35:18 And there was no passover like to that kept in Israel from the
days of Samuel the prophet; neither did all the kings of Israel keep
such a passover as Josiah kept, and the priests, and the Levites, and
all Judah and Israel that were present, and the inhabitants of
Jerusalem.

35:19 In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah was this passover
kept.

35:20 After all this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Necho king
of Egypt came up to fight against Charchemish by Euphrates: and Josiah
went out against him.

35:21 But he sent ambassadors to him, saying, What have I to do with
thee, thou king of Judah? I come not against thee this day, but
against the house wherewith I have war: for God commanded me to make
haste: forbear thee from meddling with God, who is with me, that he
destroy thee not.

35:22 Nevertheless Josiah would not turn his face from him, but
disguised himself, that he might fight with him, and hearkened not
unto the words of Necho from the mouth of God, and came to fight in
the valley of Megiddo.

35:23 And the archers shot at king Josiah; and the king said to his
servants, Have me away; for I am sore wounded.

35:24 His servants therefore took him out of that chariot, and put him
in the second chariot that he had; and they brought him to Jerusalem,
and he died, and was buried in one of the sepulchres of his fathers.
And all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah.

35:25 And Jeremiah lamented for Josiah: and all the singing men and
the singing women spake of Josiah in their lamentations to this day,
and made them an ordinance in Israel: and, behold, they are written in
the lamentations.

35:26 Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and his goodness, according
to that which was written in the law of the LORD, 35:27 And his deeds,
first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of
Israel and Judah.

36:1 Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and
made him king in his father's stead in Jerusalem.

36:2 Jehoahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign,
and he reigned three months in Jerusalem.

36:3 And the king of Egypt put him down at Jerusalem, and condemned
the land in an hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.

36:4 And the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah
and Jerusalem, and turned his name to Jehoiakim. And Necho took
Jehoahaz his brother, and carried him to Egypt.

36:5 Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign,
and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and he did that which was
evil in the sight of the LORD his God.

36:6 Against him came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and bound him
in fetters, to carry him to Babylon.

36:7 Nebuchadnezzar also carried of the vessels of the house of the
LORD to Babylon, and put them in his temple at Babylon.

36:8 Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and his abominations which
he did, and that which was found in him, behold, they are written in
the book of the kings of Israel and Judah: and Jehoiachin his son
reigned in his stead.

36:9 Jehoiachin was eight years old when he began to reign, and he
reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem: and he did that which
was evil in the sight of the LORD.

36:10 And when the year was expired, king Nebuchadnezzar sent, and
brought him to Babylon, with the goodly vessels of the house of the
LORD, and made Zedekiah his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem.

36:11 Zedekiah was one and twenty years old when he began to reign,
and reigned eleven years in Jerusalem.

36:12 And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD his God,
and humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet speaking from the
mouth of the LORD.

36:13 And he also rebelled against king Nebuchadnezzar, who had made
him swear by God: but he stiffened his neck, and hardened his heart
from turning unto the LORD God of Israel.

36:14 Moreover all the chief of the priests, and the people,
transgressed very much after all the abominations of the heathen; and
polluted the house of the LORD which he had hallowed in Jerusalem.

36:15 And the LORD God of their fathers sent to them by his
messengers, rising up betimes, and sending; because he had compassion
on his people, and on his dwelling place: 36:16 But they mocked the
messengers of God, and despised his words, and misused his prophets,
until the wrath of the LORD arose against his people, till there was
no remedy.

36:17 Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chaldees, who
slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary,
and had no compassion upon young man or maiden, old man, or him that
stooped for age: he gave them all into his hand.

36:18 And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, and
the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king,
and of his princes; all these he brought to Babylon.

36:19 And they burnt the house of God, and brake down the wall of
Jerusalem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and destroyed
all the goodly vessels thereof.

36:20 And them that had escaped from the sword carried he away to
Babylon; where they were servants to him and his sons until the reign
of the kingdom of Persia: 36:21 To fulfil the word of the LORD by the
mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed her sabbaths: for as
long as she lay desolate she kept sabbath, to fulfil threescore and
ten years.

36:22 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of
the LORD spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, the
LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, that he made a
proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing,
saying, 36:23 Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the
earth hath the LORD God of heaven given me; and he hath charged me to
build him an house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Who is there among
you of all his people?  The LORD his God be with him, and let him go up.




Ezra


1:1 Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of
the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the LORD stirred
up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, that he made a proclamation
throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying, 1:2
Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, The LORD God of heaven hath given me
all the kingdoms of the earth; and he hath charged me to build him an
house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah.

1:3 Who is there among you of all his people? his God be with him, and
let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build the house of
the LORD God of Israel, (he is the God,) which is in Jerusalem.

1:4 And whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth, let the
men of his place help him with silver, and with gold, and with goods,
and with beasts, beside the freewill offering for the house of God
that is in Jerusalem.

1:5 Then rose up the chief of the fathers of Judah and Benjamin, and
the priests, and the Levites, with all them whose spirit God had
raised, to go up to build the house of the LORD which is in Jerusalem.

1:6 And all they that were about them strengthened their hands with
vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with beasts, and with
precious things, beside all that was willingly offered.

1:7 Also Cyrus the king brought forth the vessels of the house of the
LORD, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought forth out of Jerusalem, and had
put them in the house of his gods; 1:8 Even those did Cyrus king of
Persia bring forth by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and
numbered them unto Sheshbazzar, the prince of Judah.

1:9 And this is the number of them: thirty chargers of gold, a
thousand chargers of silver, nine and twenty knives, 1:10 Thirty
basons of gold, silver basons of a second sort four hundred and ten,
and other vessels a thousand.

1:11 All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four
hundred. All these did Sheshbazzar bring up with them of the captivity
that were brought up from Babylon unto Jerusalem.

2:1 Now these are the children of the province that went up out of the
captivity, of those which had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar
the king of Babylon had carried away unto Babylon, and came again unto
Jerusalem and Judah, every one unto his city; 2:2 Which came with
Zerubbabel: Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan,
Mizpar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of
Israel: 2:3 The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy
and two.

2:4 The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two.

2:5 The children of Arah, seven hundred seventy and five.

2:6 The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab,
two thousand eight hundred and twelve.

2:7 The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.

2:8 The children of Zattu, nine hundred forty and five.

2:9 The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore.

2:10 The children of Bani, six hundred forty and two.

2:11 The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and three.

2:12 The children of Azgad, a thousand two hundred twenty and two.

2:13 The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty and six.

2:14 The children of Bigvai, two thousand fifty and six.

2:15 The children of Adin, four hundred fifty and four.

2:16 The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.

2:17 The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and three.

2:18 The children of Jorah, an hundred and twelve.

2:19 The children of Hashum, two hundred twenty and three.

2:20 The children of Gibbar, ninety and five.

2:21 The children of Bethlehem, an hundred twenty and three.

2:22 The men of Netophah, fifty and six.

2:23 The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight.

2:24 The children of Azmaveth, forty and two.

2:25 The children of Kirjatharim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven
hundred and forty and three.

2:26 The children of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty and one.

2:27 The men of Michmas, an hundred twenty and two.

2:28 The men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred twenty and three.

2:29 The children of Nebo, fifty and two.

2:30 The children of Magbish, an hundred fifty and six.

2:31 The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and
four.

2:32 The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty.

2:33 The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and
five.

2:34 The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five.

2:35 The children of Senaah, three thousand and six hundred and
thirty.

2:36 The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua,
nine hundred seventy and three.

2:37 The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two.

2:38 The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven.

2:39 The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.

2:40 The Levites: the children of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the children
of Hodaviah, seventy and four.

2:41 The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred twenty and eight.

2:42 The children of the porters: the children of Shallum, the
children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the
children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, in all an hundred thirty
and nine.

2:43 The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the
children of Tabbaoth, 2:44 The children of Keros, the children of
Siaha, the children of Padon, 2:45 The children of Lebanah, the
children of Hagabah, the children of Akkub, 2:46 The children of
Hagab, the children of Shalmai, the children of Hanan, 2:47 The
children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah,
2:48 The children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, the children of
Gazzam, 2:49 The children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, the
children of Besai, 2:50 The children of Asnah, the children of
Mehunim, the children of Nephusim, 2:51 The children of Bakbuk, the
children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur, 2:52 The children of
Bazluth, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha, 2:53 The
children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Thamah,
2:54 The children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.

2:55 The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, the
children of Sophereth, the children of Peruda, 2:56 The children of
Jaalah, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, 2:57 The
children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of
Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Ami.

2:58 All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants, were
three hundred ninety and two.

2:59 And these were they which went up from Telmelah, Telharsa,
Cherub, Addan, and Immer: but they could not shew their father's
house, and their seed, whether they were of Israel: 2:60 The children
of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six
hundred fifty and two.

2:61 And of the children of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the
children of Koz, the children of Barzillai; which took a wife of the
daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name:
2:62 These sought their register among those that were reckoned by
genealogy, but they were not found: therefore were they, as polluted,
put from the priesthood.

2:63 And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they should not eat of the
most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and with
Thummim.

2:64 The whole congregation together was forty and two thousand three
hundred and threescore, 2:65 Beside their servants and their maids, of
whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and
there were among them two hundred singing men and singing women.

2:66 Their horses were seven hundred thirty and six; their mules, two
hundred forty and five; 2:67 Their camels, four hundred thirty and
five; their asses, six thousand seven hundred and twenty.

2:68 And some of the chief of the fathers, when they came to the house
of the LORD which is at Jerusalem, offered freely for the house of God
to set it up in his place: 2:69 They gave after their ability unto the
treasure of the work threescore and one thousand drams of gold, and
five thousand pound of silver, and one hundred priests' garments.

2:70 So the priests, and the Levites, and some of the people, and the
singers, and the porters, and the Nethinims, dwelt in their cities,
and all Israel in their cities.

3:1 And when the seventh month was come, and the children of Israel
were in the cities, the people gathered themselves together as one man
to Jerusalem.

3:2 Then stood up Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and his brethren the
priests, and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and his brethren, and
builded the altar of the God of Israel, to offer burnt offerings
thereon, as it is written in the law of Moses the man of God.

3:3 And they set the altar upon his bases; for fear was upon them
because of the people of those countries: and they offered burnt
offerings thereon unto the LORD, even burnt offerings morning and
evening.

3:4 They kept also the feast of tabernacles, as it is written, and
offered the daily burnt offerings by number, according to the custom,
as the duty of every day required; 3:5 And afterward offered the
continual burnt offering, both of the new moons, and of all the set
feasts of the LORD that were consecrated, and of every one that
willingly offered a freewill offering unto the LORD.

3:6 From the first day of the seventh month began they to offer burnt
offerings unto the LORD. But the foundation of the temple of the LORD
was not yet laid.

3:7 They gave money also unto the masons, and to the carpenters; and
meat, and drink, and oil, unto them of Zidon, and to them of Tyre, to
bring cedar trees from Lebanon to the sea of Joppa, according to the
grant that they had of Cyrus king of Persia.

3:8 Now in the second year of their coming unto the house of God at
Jerusalem, in the second month, began Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel,
and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and the remnant of their brethren the
priests and the Levites, and all they that were come out of the
captivity unto Jerusalem; and appointed the Levites, from twenty years
old and upward, to set forward the work of the house of the LORD.

3:9 Then stood Jeshua with his sons and his brethren, Kadmiel and his
sons, the sons of Judah, together, to set forward the workmen in the
house of God: the sons of Henadad, with their sons and their brethren
the Levites.

3:10 And when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the
LORD, they set the priests in their apparel with trumpets, and the
Levites the sons of Asaph with cymbals, to praise the LORD, after the
ordinance of David king of Israel.

3:11 And they sang together by course in praising and giving thanks
unto the LORD; because he is good, for his mercy endureth for ever
toward Israel.

And all the people shouted with a great shout, when they praised the
LORD, because the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid.

3:12 But many of the priests and Levites and chief of the fathers, who
were ancient men, that had seen the first house, when the foundation
of this house was laid before their eyes, wept with a loud voice; and
many shouted aloud for joy: 3:13 So that the people could not discern
the noise of the shout of joy from the noise of the weeping of the
people: for the people shouted with a loud shout, and the noise was
heard afar off.

4:1 Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the
children of the captivity builded the temple unto the LORD God of
Israel; 4:2 Then they came to Zerubbabel, and to the chief of the
fathers, and said unto them, Let us build with you: for we seek your
God, as ye do; and we do sacrifice unto him since the days of
Esarhaddon king of Assur, which brought us up hither.

4:3 But Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and the rest of the chief of the
fathers of Israel, said unto them, Ye have nothing to do with us to
build an house unto our God; but we ourselves together will build unto
the LORD God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia hath
commanded us.

4:4 Then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people of
Judah, and troubled them in building, 4:5 And hired counsellors
against them, to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus king
of Persia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia.

4:6 And in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign,
wrote they unto him an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and
Jerusalem.

4:7 And in the days of Artaxerxes wrote Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel,
and the rest of their companions, unto Artaxerxes king of Persia; and
the writing of the letter was written in the Syrian tongue, and
interpreted in the Syrian tongue.

4:8 Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter
against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king in this sort: 4:9 Then wrote
Rehum the chancellor, and Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their
companions; the Dinaites, the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the
Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Susanchites, the
Dehavites, and the Elamites, 4:10 And the rest of the nations whom the
great and noble Asnapper brought over, and set in the cities of
Samaria, and the rest that are on this side the river, and at such a
time.

4:11 This is the copy of the letter that they sent unto him, even unto
Artaxerxes the king; Thy servants the men on this side the river, and
at such a time.

4:12 Be it known unto the king, that the Jews which came up from thee
to us are come unto Jerusalem, building the rebellious and the bad
city, and have set up the walls thereof, and joined the foundations.

4:13 Be it known now unto the king, that, if this city be builded, and
the walls set up again, then will they not pay toll, tribute, and
custom, and so thou shalt endamage the revenue of the kings.

4:14 Now because we have maintenance from the king's palace, and it
was not meet for us to see the king's dishonour, therefore have we
sent and certified the king; 4:15 That search may be made in the book
of the records of thy fathers: so shalt thou find in the book of the
records, and know that this city is a rebellious city, and hurtful
unto kings and provinces, and that they have moved sedition within the
same of old time: for which cause was this city destroyed.

4:16 We certify the king that, if this city be builded again, and the
walls thereof set up, by this means thou shalt have no portion on this
side the river.

4:17 Then sent the king an answer unto Rehum the chancellor, and to
Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their companions that dwell in
Samaria, and unto the rest beyond the river, Peace, and at such a
time.

4:18 The letter which ye sent unto us hath been plainly read before
me.

4:19 And I commanded, and search hath been made, and it is found that
this city of old time hath made insurrection against kings, and that
rebellion and sedition have been made therein.

4:20 There have been mighty kings also over Jerusalem, which have
ruled over all countries beyond the river; and toll, tribute, and
custom, was paid unto them.

4:21 Give ye now commandment to cause these men to cease, and that
this city be not builded, until another commandment shall be given
from me.

4:22 Take heed now that ye fail not to do this: why should damage grow
to the hurt of the kings?  4:23 Now when the copy of king Artaxerxes'
letter was read before Rehum, and Shimshai the scribe, and their
companions, they went up in haste to Jerusalem unto the Jews, and made
them to cease by force and power.

4:24 Then ceased the work of the house of God which is at Jerusalem.
So it ceased unto the second year of the reign of Darius king of
Persia.

5:1 Then the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah the son of
Iddo, prophesied unto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem in the
name of the God of Israel, even unto them.

5:2 Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son
of Jozadak, and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem:
and with them were the prophets of God helping them.

5:3 At the same time came to them Tatnai, governor on this side the
river, and Shetharboznai and their companions, and said thus unto
them, Who hath commanded you to build this house, and to make up this
wall?  5:4 Then said we unto them after this manner, What are the
names of the men that make this building?  5:5 But the eye of their
God was upon the elders of the Jews, that they could not cause them to
cease, till the matter came to Darius: and then they returned answer
by letter concerning this matter.

5:6 The copy of the letter that Tatnai, governor on this side the
river, and Shetharboznai and his companions the Apharsachites, which
were on this side the river, sent unto Darius the king: 5:7 They sent
a letter unto him, wherein was written thus; Unto Darius the king, all
peace.

5:8 Be it known unto the king, that we went into the province of
Judea, to the house of the great God, which is builded with great
stones, and timber is laid in the walls, and this work goeth fast on,
and prospereth in their hands.

5:9 Then asked we those elders, and said unto them thus, Who commanded
you to build this house, and to make up these walls?  5:10 We asked
their names also, to certify thee, that we might write the names of
the men that were the chief of them.

5:11 And thus they returned us answer, saying, We are the servants of
the God of heaven and earth, and build the house that was builded
these many years ago, which a great king of Israel builded and set up.

5:12 But after that our fathers had provoked the God of heaven unto
wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of
Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house, and carried the
people away into Babylon.

5:13 But in the first year of Cyrus the king of Babylon the same king
Cyrus made a decree to build this house of God.

5:14 And the vessels also of gold and silver of the house of God,
which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem, and
brought them into the temple of Babylon, those did Cyrus the king take
out of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered unto one, whose
name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor; 5:15 And said unto
him, Take these vessels, go, carry them into the temple that is in
Jerusalem, and let the house of God be builded in his place.

5:16 Then came the same Sheshbazzar, and laid the foundation of the
house of God which is in Jerusalem: and since that time even until now
hath it been in building, and yet it is not finished.

5:17 Now therefore, if it seem good to the king, let there be search
made in the king's treasure house, which is there at Babylon, whether
it be so, that a decree was made of Cyrus the king to build this house
of God at Jerusalem, and let the king send his pleasure to us
concerning this matter.

6:1 Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in the
house of the rolls, where the treasures were laid up in Babylon.

6:2 And there was found at Achmetha, in the palace that is in the
province of the Medes, a roll, and therein was a record thus written:
6:3 In the first year of Cyrus the king the same Cyrus the king made a
decree concerning the house of God at Jerusalem, Let the house be
builded, the place where they offered sacrifices, and let the
foundations thereof be strongly laid; the height thereof threescore
cubits, and the breadth thereof threescore cubits; 6:4 With three rows
of great stones, and a row of new timber: and let the expenses be
given out of the king's house: 6:5 And also let the golden and silver
vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took forth out of
the temple which is at Jerusalem, and brought unto Babylon, be
restored, and brought again unto the temple which is at Jerusalem,
every one to his place, and place them in the house of God.

6:6 Now therefore, Tatnai, governor beyond the river, Shetharboznai,
and your companions the Apharsachites, which are beyond the river, be
ye far from thence: 6:7 Let the work of this house of God alone; let
the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this house
of God in his place.

6:8 Moreover I make a decree what ye shall do to the elders of these
Jews for the building of this house of God: that of the king's goods,
even of the tribute beyond the river, forthwith expenses be given unto
these men, that they be not hindered.

6:9 And that which they have need of, both young bullocks, and rams,
and lambs, for the burnt offerings of the God of heaven, wheat, salt,
wine, and oil, according to the appointment of the priests which are
at Jerusalem, let it be given them day by day without fail: 6:10 That
they may offer sacrifices of sweet savours unto the God of heaven, and
pray for the life of the king, and of his sons.

6:11 Also I have made a decree, that whosoever shall alter this word,
let timber be pulled down from his house, and being set up, let him be
hanged thereon; and let his house be made a dunghill for this.

6:12 And the God that hath caused his name to dwell there destroy all
kings and people, that shall put to their hand to alter and to destroy
this house of God which is at Jerusalem. I Darius have made a decree;
let it be done with speed.

6:13 Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river, Shetharboznai, and
their companions, according to that which Darius the king had sent, so
they did speedily.

6:14 And the elders of the Jews builded, and they prospered through
the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo.
And they builded, and finished it, according to the commandment of the
God of Israel, and according to the commandment of Cyrus, and Darius,
and Artaxerxes king of Persia.

6:15 And this house was finished on the third day of the month Adar,
which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king.

6:16 And the children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the
rest of the children of the captivity, kept the dedication of this
house of God with joy.

6:17 And offered at the dedication of this house of God an hundred
bullocks, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs; and for a sin offering
for all Israel, twelve he goats, according to the number of the tribes
of Israel.

6:18 And they set the priests in their divisions, and the Levites in
their courses, for the service of God, which is at Jerusalem; as it is
written in the book of Moses.

6:19 And the children of the captivity kept the passover upon the
fourteenth day of the first month.

6:20 For the priests and the Levites were purified together, all of
them were pure, and killed the passover for all the children of the
captivity, and for their brethren the priests, and for themselves.

6:21 And the children of Israel, which were come again out of
captivity, and all such as had separated themselves unto them from the
filthiness of the heathen of the land, to seek the LORD God of Israel,
did eat, 6:22 And kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with
joy: for the LORD had made them joyful, and turned the heart of the
king of Assyria unto them, to strengthen their hands in the work of
the house of God, the God of Israel.

7:1 Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia,
Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah, 7:2
The son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub, 7:3 The son
of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth, 7:4 The son of
Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki, 7:5 The son of Abishua,
the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief
priest: 7:6 This Ezra went up from Babylon; and he was a ready scribe
in the law of Moses, which the LORD God of Israel had given: and the
king granted him all his request, according to the hand of the LORD
his God upon him.

7:7 And there went up some of the children of Israel, and of the
priests, and the Levites, and the singers, and the porters, and the
Nethinims, unto Jerusalem, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king.

7:8 And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the
seventh year of the king.

7:9 For upon the first day of the first month began he to go up from
Babylon, and on the first day of the fifth month came he to Jerusalem,
according to the good hand of his God upon him.

7:10 For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the LORD, and
to do it, and to teach in Israel statutes and judgments.

7:11 Now this is the copy of the letter that the king Artaxerxes gave
unto Ezra the priest, the scribe, even a scribe of the words of the
commandments of the LORD, and of his statutes to Israel.

7:12 Artaxerxes, king of kings, unto Ezra the priest, a scribe of the
law of the God of heaven, perfect peace, and at such a time.

7:13 I make a decree, that all they of the people of Israel, and of
his priests and Levites, in my realm, which are minded of their own
freewill to go up to Jerusalem, go with thee.

7:14 Forasmuch as thou art sent of the king, and of his seven
counsellors, to enquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem, according to
the law of thy God which is in thine hand; 7:15 And to carry the
silver and gold, which the king and his counsellors have freely
offered unto the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Jerusalem, 7:16
And all the silver and gold that thou canst find in all the province
of Babylon, with the freewill offering of the people, and of the
priests, offering willingly for the house of their God which is in
Jerusalem: 7:17 That thou mayest buy speedily with this money
bullocks, rams, lambs, with their meat offerings and their drink
offerings, and offer them upon the altar of the house of your God
which is in Jerusalem.

7:18 And whatsoever shall seem good to thee, and to thy brethren, to
do with the rest of the silver and the gold, that do after the will of
your God.

7:19 The vessels also that are given thee for the service of the house
of thy God, those deliver thou before the God of Jerusalem.

7:20 And whatsoever more shall be needful for the house of thy God,
which thou shalt have occasion to bestow, bestow it out of the king's
treasure house.

7:21 And I, even I Artaxerxes the king, do make a decree to all the
treasurers which are beyond the river, that whatsoever Ezra the
priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, shall require of
you, it be done speedily, 7:22 Unto an hundred talents of silver, and
to an hundred measures of wheat, and to an hundred baths of wine, and
to an hundred baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much.

7:23 Whatsoever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be
diligently done for the house of the God of heaven: for why should
there be wrath against the realm of the king and his sons?  7:24 Also
we certify you, that touching any of the priests and Levites, singers,
porters, Nethinims, or ministers of this house of God, it shall not be
lawful to impose toll, tribute, or custom, upon them.

7:25 And thou, Ezra, after the wisdom of thy God, that is in thine
hand, set magistrates and judges, which may judge all the people that
are beyond the river, all such as know the laws of thy God; and teach
ye them that know them not.

7:26 And whosoever will not do the law of thy God, and the law of the
king, let judgment be executed speedily upon him, whether it be unto
death, or to banishment, or to confiscation of goods, or to
imprisonment.

7:27 Blessed be the LORD God of our fathers, which hath put such a
thing as this in the king's heart, to beautify the house of the LORD
which is in Jerusalem: 7:28 And hath extended mercy unto me before the
king, and his counsellors, and before all the king's mighty princes.
And I was strengthened as the hand of the LORD my God was upon me, and
I gathered together out of Israel chief men to go up with me.

8:1 These are now the chief of their fathers, and this is the
genealogy of them that went up with me from Babylon, in the reign of
Artaxerxes the king.

8:2 Of the sons of Phinehas; Gershom: of the sons of Ithamar; Daniel:
of the sons of David; Hattush.

8:3 Of the sons of Shechaniah, of the sons of Pharosh; Zechariah: and
with him were reckoned by genealogy of the males an hundred and fifty.

8:4 Of the sons of Pahathmoab; Elihoenai the son of Zerahiah, and with
him two hundred males.

8:5 Of the sons of Shechaniah; the son of Jahaziel, and with him three
hundred males.

8:6 Of the sons also of Adin; Ebed the son of Jonathan, and with him
fifty males.

8:7 And of the sons of Elam; Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah, and with
him seventy males.

8:8 And of the sons of Shephatiah; Zebadiah the son of Michael, and
with him fourscore males.

8:9 Of the sons of Joab; Obadiah the son of Jehiel, and with him two
hundred and eighteen males.

8:10 And of the sons of Shelomith; the son of Josiphiah, and with him
an hundred and threescore males.

8:11 And of the sons of Bebai; Zechariah the son of Bebai, and with
him twenty and eight males.

8:12 And of the sons of Azgad; Johanan the son of Hakkatan, and with
him an hundred and ten males.

8:13 And of the last sons of Adonikam, whose names are these,
Eliphelet, Jeiel, and Shemaiah, and with them threescore males.

8:14 Of the sons also of Bigvai; Uthai, and Zabbud, and with them
seventy males.

8:15 And I gathered them together to the river that runneth to Ahava;
and there abode we in tents three days: and I viewed the people, and
the priests, and found there none of the sons of Levi.

8:16 Then sent I for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, and for
Elnathan, and for Jarib, and for Elnathan, and for Nathan, and for
Zechariah, and for Meshullam, chief men; also for Joiarib, and for
Elnathan, men of understanding.

8:17 And I sent them with commandment unto Iddo the chief at the place
Casiphia, and I told them what they should say unto Iddo, and to his
brethren the Nethinims, at the place Casiphia, that they should bring
unto us ministers for the house of our God.

8:18 And by the good hand of our God upon us they brought us a man of
understanding, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of
Israel; and Sherebiah, with his sons and his brethren, eighteen; 8:19
And Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, his
brethren and their sons, twenty; 8:20 Also of the Nethinims, whom
David and the princes had appointed for the service of the Levites,
two hundred and twenty Nethinims: all of them were expressed by name.

8:21 Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river of Ahava, that we
might afflict ourselves before our God, to seek of him a right way for
us, and for our little ones, and for all our substance.

8:22 For I was ashamed to require of the king a band of soldiers and
horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way: because we had
spoken unto the king, saying, The hand of our God is upon all them for
good that seek him; but his power and his wrath is against all them
that forsake him.

8:23 So we fasted and besought our God for this: and he was intreated
of us.

8:24 Then I separated twelve of the chief of the priests, Sherebiah,
Hashabiah, and ten of their brethren with them, 8:25 And weighed unto
them the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, even the offering of
the house of our God, which the king, and his counsellors, and his
lords, and all Israel there present, had offered: 8:26 I even weighed
unto their hand six hundred and fifty talents of silver, and silver
vessels an hundred talents, and of gold an hundred talents; 8:27 Also
twenty basons of gold, of a thousand drams; and two vessels of fine
copper, precious as gold.

8:28 And I said unto them, Ye are holy unto the LORD; the vessels are
holy also; and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering unto
the LORD God of your fathers.

8:29 Watch ye, and keep them, until ye weigh them before the chief of
the priests and the Levites, and chief of the fathers of Israel, at
Jerusalem, in the chambers of the house of the LORD.

8:30 So took the priests and the Levites the weight of the silver, and
the gold, and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem unto the house
of our God.

8:31 Then we departed from the river of Ahava on the twelfth day of
the first month, to go unto Jerusalem: and the hand of our God was
upon us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy, and of such
as lay in wait by the way.

8:32 And we came to Jerusalem, and abode there three days.

8:33 Now on the fourth day was the silver and the gold and the vessels
weighed in the house of our God by the hand of Meremoth the son of
Uriah the priest; and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas; and
with them was Jozabad the son of Jeshua, and Noadiah the son of
Binnui, Levites; 8:34 By number and by weight of every one: and all
the weight was written at that time.

8:35 Also the children of those that had been carried away, which were
come out of the captivity, offered burnt offerings unto the God of
Israel, twelve bullocks for all Israel, ninety and six rams, seventy
and seven lambs, twelve he goats for a sin offering: all this was a
burnt offering unto the LORD.

8:36 And they delivered the king's commissions unto the king's
lieutenants, and to the governors on this side the river: and they
furthered the people, and the house of God.

9:1 Now when these things were done, the princes came to me, saying,
The people of Israel, and the priests, and the Levites, have not
separated themselves from the people of the lands, doing according to
their abominations, even of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the
Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians,
and the Amorites.

9:2 For they have taken of their daughters for themselves, and for
their sons: so that the holy seed have mingled themselves with the
people of those lands: yea, the hand of the princes and rulers hath
been chief in this trespass.

9:3 And when I heard this thing, I rent my garment and my mantle, and
plucked off the hair of my head and of my beard, and sat down
astonied.

9:4 Then were assembled unto me every one that trembled at the words
of the God of Israel, because of the transgression of those that had
been carried away; and I sat astonied until the evening sacrifice.

9:5 And at the evening sacrifice I arose up from my heaviness; and
having rent my garment and my mantle, I fell upon my knees, and spread
out my hands unto the LORD my God, 9:6 And said, O my God, I am
ashamed and blush to lift up my face to thee, my God: for our
iniquities are increased over our head, and our trespass is grown up
unto the heavens.

9:7 Since the days of our fathers have we been in a great trespass
unto this day; and for our iniquities have we, our kings, and our
priests, been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to
the sword, to captivity, and to a spoil, and to confusion of face, as
it is this day.

9:8 And now for a little space grace hath been shewed from the LORD
our God, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to give us a nail in his
holy place, that our God may lighten our eyes, and give us a little
reviving in our bondage.

9:9 For we were bondmen; yet our God hath not forsaken us in our
bondage, but hath extended mercy unto us in the sight of the kings of
Persia, to give us a reviving, to set up the house of our God, and to
repair the desolations thereof, and to give us a wall in Judah and in
Jerusalem.

9:10 And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? for we have
forsaken thy commandments, 9:11 Which thou hast commanded by thy
servants the prophets, saying, The land, unto which ye go to possess
it, is an unclean land with the filthiness of the people of the lands,
with their abominations, which have filled it from one end to another
with their uncleanness.

9:12 Now therefore give not your daughters unto their sons, neither
take their daughters unto your sons, nor seek their peace or their
wealth for ever: that ye may be strong, and eat the good of the land,
and leave it for an inheritance to your children for ever.

9:13 And after all that is come upon us for our evil deeds, and for
our great trespass, seeing that thou our God hast punished us less
than our iniquities deserve, and hast given us such deliverance as
this; 9:14 Should we again break thy commandments, and join in
affinity with the people of these abominations? wouldest not thou be
angry with us till thou hadst consumed us, so that there should be no
remnant nor escaping?  9:15 O LORD God of Israel, thou art righteous:
for we remain yet escaped, as it is this day: behold, we are before
thee in our trespasses: for we cannot stand before thee because of
this.

10:1 Now when Ezra had prayed, and when he had confessed, weeping and
casting himself down before the house of God, there assembled unto him
out of Israel a very great congregation of men and women and children:
for the people wept very sore.

10:2 And Shechaniah the son of Jehiel, one of the sons of Elam,
answered and said unto Ezra, We have trespassed against our God, and
have taken strange wives of the people of the land: yet now there is
hope in Israel concerning this thing.

10:3 Now therefore let us make a covenant with our God to put away all
the wives, and such as are born of them, according to the counsel of
my lord, and of those that tremble at the commandment of our God; and
let it be done according to the law.

10:4 Arise; for this matter belongeth unto thee: we also will be with
thee: be of good courage, and do it.

10:5 Then arose Ezra, and made the chief priests, the Levites, and all
Israel, to swear that they should do according to this word. And they
sware.

10:6 Then Ezra rose up from before the house of God, and went into the
chamber of Johanan the son of Eliashib: and when he came thither, he
did eat no bread, nor drink water: for he mourned because of the
transgression of them that had been carried away.

10:7 And they made proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem unto
all the children of the captivity, that they should gather themselves
together unto Jerusalem; 10:8 And that whosoever would not come within
three days, according to the counsel of the princes and the elders,
all his substance should be forfeited, and himself separated from the
congregation of those that had been carried away.

10:9 Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered themselves
together unto Jerusalem within three days. It was the ninth month, on
the twentieth day of the month; and all the people sat in the street
of the house of God, trembling because of this matter, and for the
great rain.

10:10 And Ezra the priest stood up, and said unto them, Ye have
transgressed, and have taken strange wives, to increase the trespass
of Israel.

10:11 Now therefore make confession unto the LORD God of your fathers,
and do his pleasure: and separate yourselves from the people of the
land, and from the strange wives.

10:12 Then all the congregation answered and said with a loud voice,
As thou hast said, so must we do.

10:13 But the people are many, and it is a time of much rain, and we
are not able to stand without, neither is this a work of one day or
two: for we are many that have transgressed in this thing.

10:14 Let now our rulers of all the congregation stand, and let all
them which have taken strange wives in our cities come at appointed
times, and with them the elders of every city, and the judges thereof,
until the fierce wrath of our God for this matter be turned from us.

10:15 Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahaziah the son of Tikvah
were employed about this matter: and Meshullam and Shabbethai the
Levite helped them.

10:16 And the children of the captivity did so. And Ezra the priest,
with certain chief of the fathers, after the house of their fathers,
and all of them by their names, were separated, and sat down in the
first day of the tenth month to examine the matter.

10:17 And they made an end with all the men that had taken strange
wives by the first day of the first month.

10:18 And among the sons of the priests there were found that had
taken strange wives: namely, of the sons of Jeshua the son of Jozadak,
and his brethren; Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedaliah.

10:19 And they gave their hands that they would put away their wives;
and being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their trespass.

10:20 And of the sons of Immer; Hanani, and Zebadiah.

10:21 And of the sons of Harim; Maaseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah,
and Jehiel, and Uzziah.

10:22 And of the sons of Pashur; Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael,
Nethaneel, Jozabad, and Elasah.

10:23 Also of the Levites; Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah, (the same
is Kelita,) Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.

10:24 Of the singers also; Eliashib: and of the porters; Shallum, and
Telem, and Uri.

10:25 Moreover of Israel: of the sons of Parosh; Ramiah, and Jeziah,
and Malchiah, and Miamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah.

10:26 And of the sons of Elam; Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, and
Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Eliah.

10:27 And of the sons of Zattu; Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, and
Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.

10:28 Of the sons also of Bebai; Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, and
Athlai.

10:29 And of the sons of Bani; Meshullam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub,
and Sheal, and Ramoth.

10:30 And of the sons of Pahathmoab; Adna, and Chelal, Benaiah,
Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezaleel, and Binnui, and Manasseh.

10:31 And of the sons of Harim; Eliezer, Ishijah, Malchiah, Shemaiah,
Shimeon, 10:32 Benjamin, Malluch, and Shemariah.

10:33 Of the sons of Hashum; Mattenai, Mattathah, Zabad, Eliphelet,
Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei.

10:34 Of the sons of Bani; Maadai, Amram, and Uel, 10:35 Benaiah,
Bedeiah, Chelluh, 10:36 Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib, 10:37 Mattaniah,
Mattenai, and Jaasau, 10:38 And Bani, and Binnui, Shimei, 10:39 And
Shelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah, 10:40 Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,
10:41 Azareel, and Shelemiah, Shemariah, 10:42 Shallum, Amariah, and
Joseph.

10:43 Of the sons of Nebo; Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jadau,
and Joel, Benaiah.

10:44 All these had taken strange wives: and some of them had wives by
whom they had children.




The Book of Nehemiah


1:1 The words of Nehemiah the son of Hachaliah. And it came to pass
in the month Chisleu, in the twentieth year, as I was in Shushan the
palace, 1:2 That Hanani, one of my brethren, came, he and certain men
of Judah; and I asked them concerning the Jews that had escaped, which
were left of the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem.

1:3 And they said unto me, The remnant that are left of the captivity
there in the province are in great affliction and reproach: the wall
of Jerusalem also is broken down, and the gates thereof are burned
with fire.

1:4 And it came to pass, when I heard these words, that I sat down and
wept, and mourned certain days, and fasted, and prayed before the God
of heaven, 1:5 And said, I beseech thee, O LORD God of heaven, the
great and terrible God, that keepeth covenant and mercy for them that
love him and observe his commandments: 1:6 Let thine ear now be
attentive, and thine eyes open, that thou mayest hear the prayer of
thy servant, which I pray before thee now, day and night, for the
children of Israel thy servants, and confess the sins of the children
of Israel, which we have sinned against thee: both I and my father's
house have sinned.

1:7 We have dealt very corruptly against thee, and have not kept the
commandments, nor the statutes, nor the judgments, which thou
commandedst thy servant Moses.

1:8 Remember, I beseech thee, the word that thou commandedst thy
servant Moses, saying, If ye transgress, I will scatter you abroad
among the nations: 1:9 But if ye turn unto me, and keep my
commandments, and do them; though there were of you cast out unto the
uttermost part of the heaven, yet will I gather them from thence, and
will bring them unto the place that I have chosen to set my name
there.

1:10 Now these are thy servants and thy people, whom thou hast
redeemed by thy great power, and by thy strong hand.

1:11 O LORD, I beseech thee, let now thine ear be attentive to the
prayer of thy servant, and to the prayer of thy servants, who desire
to fear thy name: and prosper, I pray thee, thy servant this day, and
grant him mercy in the sight of this man. For I was the king's
cupbearer.

2:1 And it came to pass in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of
Artaxerxes the king, that wine was before him: and I took up the wine,
and gave it unto the king. Now I had not been beforetime sad in his
presence.

2:2 Wherefore the king said unto me, Why is thy countenance sad,
seeing thou art not sick? this is nothing else but sorrow of heart.
Then I was very sore afraid, 2:3 And said unto the king, Let the king
live for ever: why should not my countenance be sad, when the city,
the place of my fathers' sepulchres, lieth waste, and the gates
thereof are consumed with fire?  2:4 Then the king said unto me, For
what dost thou make request? So I prayed to the God of heaven.

2:5 And I said unto the king, If it please the king, and if thy
servant have found favour in thy sight, that thou wouldest send me
unto Judah, unto the city of my fathers' sepulchres, that I may build
it.

2:6 And the king said unto me, (the queen also sitting by him,) For
how long shall thy journey be? and when wilt thou return? So it
pleased the king to send me; and I set him a time.

2:7 Moreover I said unto the king, If it please the king, let letters
be given me to the governors beyond the river, that they may convey me
over till I come into Judah; 2:8 And a letter unto Asaph the keeper of
the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the
gates of the palace which appertained to the house, and for the wall
of the city, and for the house that I shall enter into. And the king
granted me, according to the good hand of my God upon me.

2:9 Then I came to the governors beyond the river, and gave them the
king's letters. Now the king had sent captains of the army and
horsemen with me.

2:10 When Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the
Ammonite, heard of it, it grieved them exceedingly that there was come
a man to seek the welfare of the children of Israel.

2:11 So I came to Jerusalem, and was there three days.

2:12 And I arose in the night, I and some few men with me; neither
told I any man what my God had put in my heart to do at Jerusalem:
neither was there any beast with me, save the beast that I rode upon.

2:13 And I went out by night by the gate of the valley, even before
the dragon well, and to the dung port, and viewed the walls of
Jerusalem, which were broken down, and the gates thereof were consumed
with fire.

2:14 Then I went on to the gate of the fountain, and to the king's
pool: but there was no place for the beast that was under me to pass.

2:15 Then went I up in the night by the brook, and viewed the wall,
and turned back, and entered by the gate of the valley, and so
returned.

2:16 And the rulers knew not whither I went, or what I did; neither
had I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor to the
nobles, nor to the rulers, nor to the rest that did the work.

2:17 Then said I unto them, Ye see the distress that we are in, how
Jerusalem lieth waste, and the gates thereof are burned with fire:
come, and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more a
reproach.

2:18 Then I told them of the hand of my God which was good upon me; as
also the king's words that he had spoken unto me. And they said, Let
us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for this good
work.

2:19 But when Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the
Ammonite, and Geshem the Arabian, heard it, they laughed us to scorn,
and despised us, and said, What is this thing that ye do? will ye
rebel against the king?  2:20 Then answered I them, and said unto
them, The God of heaven, he will prosper us; therefore we his servants
will arise and build: but ye have no portion, nor right, nor memorial,
in Jerusalem.

3:1 Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brethren the
priests, and they builded the sheep gate; they sanctified it, and set
up the doors of it; even unto the tower of Meah they sanctified it,
unto the tower of Hananeel.

3:2 And next unto him builded the men of Jericho. And next to them
builded Zaccur the son of Imri.

3:3 But the fish gate did the sons of Hassenaah build, who also laid
the beams thereof, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof,
and the bars thereof.

3:4 And next unto them repaired Meremoth the son of Urijah, the son of
Koz. And next unto them repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah, the
son of Meshezabeel. And next unto them repaired Zadok the son of
Baana.

3:5 And next unto them the Tekoites repaired; but their nobles put not
their necks to the work of their LORD.

3:6 Moreover the old gate repaired Jehoiada the son of Paseah, and
Meshullam the son of Besodeiah; they laid the beams thereof, and set
up the doors thereof, and the locks thereof, and the bars thereof.

3:7 And next unto them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon the
Meronothite, the men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah, unto the throne of the
governor on this side the river.

3:8 Next unto him repaired Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, of the
goldsmiths.

Next unto him also repaired Hananiah the son of one of the
apothecaries, and they fortified Jerusalem unto the broad wall.

3:9 And next unto them repaired Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of
the half part of Jerusalem.

3:10 And next unto them repaired Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, even
over against his house. And next unto him repaired Hattush the son of
Hashabniah.

3:11 Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hashub the son of Pahathmoab,
repaired the other piece, and the tower of the furnaces.

3:12 And next unto him repaired Shallum the son of Halohesh, the ruler
of the half part of Jerusalem, he and his daughters.

3:13 The valley gate repaired Hanun, and the inhabitants of Zanoah;
they built it, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and
the bars thereof, and a thousand cubits on the wall unto the dung
gate.

3:14 But the dung gate repaired Malchiah the son of Rechab, the ruler
of part of Bethhaccerem; he built it, and set up the doors thereof,
the locks thereof, and the bars thereof.

3:15 But the gate of the fountain repaired Shallun the son of
Colhozeh, the ruler of part of Mizpah; he built it, and covered it,
and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof,
and the wall of the pool of Siloah by the king's garden, and unto the
stairs that go down from the city of David.

3:16 After him repaired Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of the
half part of Bethzur, unto the place over against the sepulchres of
David, and to the pool that was made, and unto the house of the
mighty.

3:17 After him repaired the Levites, Rehum the son of Bani. Next unto
him repaired Hashabiah, the ruler of the half part of Keilah, in his
part.

3:18 After him repaired their brethren, Bavai the son of Henadad, the
ruler of the half part of Keilah.

3:19 And next to him repaired Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of
Mizpah, another piece over against the going up to the armoury at the
turning of the wall.

3:20 After him Baruch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired the other
piece, from the turning of the wall unto the door of the house of
Eliashib the high priest.

3:21 After him repaired Meremoth the son of Urijah the son of Koz
another piece, from the door of the house of Eliashib even to the end
of the house of Eliashib.

3:22 And after him repaired the priests, the men of the plain.

3:23 After him repaired Benjamin and Hashub over against their house.

After him repaired Azariah the son of Maaseiah the son of Ananiah by
his house.

3:24 After him repaired Binnui the son of Henadad another piece, from
the house of Azariah unto the turning of the wall, even unto the
corner.

3:25 Palal the son of Uzai, over against the turning of the wall, and
the tower which lieth out from the king's high house, that was by the
court of the prison. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh.

3:26 Moreover the Nethinims dwelt in Ophel, unto the place over
against the water gate toward the east, and the tower that lieth out.

3:27 After them the Tekoites repaired another piece, over against the
great tower that lieth out, even unto the wall of Ophel.

3:28 From above the horse gate repaired the priests, every one over
against his house.

3:29 After them repaired Zadok the son of Immer over against his
house.

After him repaired also Shemaiah the son of Shechaniah, the keeper of
the east gate.

3:30 After him repaired Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun the
sixth son of Zalaph, another piece. After him repaired Meshullam the
son of Berechiah over against his chamber.

3:31 After him repaired Malchiah the goldsmith's son unto the place of
the Nethinims, and of the merchants, over against the gate Miphkad,
and to the going up of the corner.

3:32 And between the going up of the corner unto the sheep gate
repaired the goldsmiths and the merchants.

4:1 But it came to pass, that when Sanballat heard that we builded the
wall, he was wroth, and took great indignation, and mocked the Jews.

4:2 And he spake before his brethren and the army of Samaria, and
said, What do these feeble Jews? will they fortify themselves? will
they sacrifice?  will they make an end in a day? will they revive the
stones out of the heaps of the rubbish which are burned?  4:3 Now
Tobiah the Ammonite was by him, and he said, Even that which they
build, if a fox go up, he shall even break down their stone wall.

4:4 Hear, O our God; for we are despised: and turn their reproach upon
their own head, and give them for a prey in the land of captivity: 4:5
And cover not their iniquity, and let not their sin be blotted out
from before thee: for they have provoked thee to anger before the
builders.

4:6 So built we the wall; and all the wall was joined together unto
the half thereof: for the people had a mind to work.

4:7 But it came to pass, that when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and the
Arabians, and the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites, heard that the walls
of Jerusalem were made up, and that the breaches began to be stopped,
then they were very wroth, 4:8 And conspired all of them together to
come and to fight against Jerusalem, and to hinder it.

4:9 Nevertheless we made our prayer unto our God, and set a watch
against them day and night, because of them.

4:10 And Judah said, The strength of the bearers of burdens is
decayed, and there is much rubbish; so that we are not able to build
the wall.

4:11 And our adversaries said, They shall not know, neither see, till
we come in the midst among them, and slay them, and cause the work to
cease.

4:12 And it came to pass, that when the Jews which dwelt by them came,
they said unto us ten times, From all places whence ye shall return
unto us they will be upon you.

4:13 Therefore set I in the lower places behind the wall, and on the
higher places, I even set the people after their families with their
swords, their spears, and their bows.

4:14 And I looked, and rose up, and said unto the nobles, and to the
rulers, and to the rest of the people, Be not ye afraid of them:
remember the LORD, which is great and terrible, and fight for your
brethren, your sons, and your daughters, your wives, and your houses.

4:15 And it came to pass, when our enemies heard that it was known
unto us, and God had brought their counsel to nought, that we returned
all of us to the wall, every one unto his work.

4:16 And it came to pass from that time forth, that the half of my
servants wrought in the work, and the other half of them held both the
spears, the shields, and the bows, and the habergeons; and the rulers
were behind all the house of Judah.

4:17 They which builded on the wall, and they that bare burdens, with
those that laded, every one with one of his hands wrought in the work,
and with the other hand held a weapon.

4:18 For the builders, every one had his sword girded by his side, and
so builded. And he that sounded the trumpet was by me.

4:19 And I said unto the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of
the people, The work is great and large, and we are separated upon the
wall, one far from another.

4:20 In what place therefore ye hear the sound of the trumpet, resort
ye thither unto us: our God shall fight for us.

4:21 So we laboured in the work: and half of them held the spears from
the rising of the morning till the stars appeared.

4:22 Likewise at the same time said I unto the people, Let every one
with his servant lodge within Jerusalem, that in the night they may be
a guard to us, and labour on the day.

4:23 So neither I, nor my brethren, nor my servants, nor the men of
the guard which followed me, none of us put off our clothes, saving
that every one put them off for washing.

5:1 And there was a great cry of the people and of their wives against
their brethren the Jews.

5:2 For there were that said, We, our sons, and our daughters, are
many: therefore we take up corn for them, that we may eat, and live.

5:3 Some also there were that said, We have mortgaged our lands,
vineyards, and houses, that we might buy corn, because of the dearth.

5:4 There were also that said, We have borrowed money for the king's
tribute, and that upon our lands and vineyards.

5:5 Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren, our children as
their children: and, lo, we bring into bondage our sons and our
daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are brought unto
bondage already: neither is it in our power to redeem them; for other
men have our lands and vineyards.

5:6 And I was very angry when I heard their cry and these words.

5:7 Then I consulted with myself, and I rebuked the nobles, and the
rulers, and said unto them, Ye exact usury, every one of his brother.
And I set a great assembly against them.

5:8 And I said unto them, We after our ability have redeemed our
brethren the Jews, which were sold unto the heathen; and will ye even
sell your brethren? or shall they be sold unto us? Then held they
their peace, and found nothing to answer.

5:9 Also I said, It is not good that ye do: ought ye not to walk in
the fear of our God because of the reproach of the heathen our
enemies?  5:10 I likewise, and my brethren, and my servants, might
exact of them money and corn: I pray you, let us leave off this usury.

5:11 Restore, I pray you, to them, even this day, their lands, their
vineyards, their oliveyards, and their houses, also the hundredth part
of the money, and of the corn, the wine, and the oil, that ye exact of
them.

5:12 Then said they, We will restore them, and will require nothing of
them; so will we do as thou sayest. Then I called the priests, and
took an oath of them, that they should do according to this promise.

5:13 Also I shook my lap, and said, So God shake out every man from
his house, and from his labour, that performeth not this promise, even
thus be he shaken out, and emptied. And all the congregation said,
Amen, and praised the LORD. And the people did according to this
promise.

5:14 Moreover from the time that I was appointed to be their governor
in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even unto the two and
thirtieth year of Artaxerxes the king, that is, twelve years, I and my
brethren have not eaten the bread of the governor.

5:15 But the former governors that had been before me were chargeable
unto the people, and had taken of them bread and wine, beside forty
shekels of silver; yea, even their servants bare rule over the people:
but so did not I, because of the fear of God.

5:16 Yea, also I continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we
any land: and all my servants were gathered thither unto the work.

5:17 Moreover there were at my table an hundred and fifty of the Jews
and rulers, beside those that came unto us from among the heathen that
are about us.

5:18 Now that which was prepared for me daily was one ox and six
choice sheep; also fowls were prepared for me, and once in ten days
store of all sorts of wine: yet for all this required not I the bread
of the governor, because the bondage was heavy upon this people.

5:19 Think upon me, my God, for good, according to all that I have
done for this people.

6:1 Now it came to pass when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and Geshem the
Arabian, and the rest of our enemies, heard that I had builded the
wall, and that there was no breach left therein; (though at that time
I had not set up the doors upon the gates;) 6:2 That Sanballat and
Geshem sent unto me, saying, Come, let us meet together in some one of
the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief.

6:3 And I sent messengers unto them, saying, I am doing a great work,
so that I cannot come down: why should the work cease, whilst I leave
it, and come down to you?  6:4 Yet they sent unto me four times after
this sort; and I answered them after the same manner.

6:5 Then sent Sanballat his servant unto me in like manner the fifth
time with an open letter in his hand; 6:6 Wherein was written, It is
reported among the heathen, and Gashmu saith it, that thou and the
Jews think to rebel: for which cause thou buildest the wall, that thou
mayest be their king, according to these words.

6:7 And thou hast also appointed prophets to preach of thee at
Jerusalem, saying, There is a king in Judah: and now shall it be
reported to the king according to these words. Come now therefore, and
let us take counsel together.

6:8 Then I sent unto him, saying, There are no such things done as
thou sayest, but thou feignest them out of thine own heart.

6:9 For they all made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be weakened
from the work, that it be not done. Now therefore, O God, strengthen
my hands.

6:10 Afterward I came unto the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah
the son of Mehetabeel, who was shut up; and he said, Let us meet
together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the
doors of the temple: for they will come to slay thee; yea, in the
night will they come to slay thee.

6:11 And I said, Should such a man as I flee? and who is there, that,
being as I am, would go into the temple to save his life? I will not
go in.

6:12 And, lo, I perceived that God had not sent him; but that he
pronounced this prophecy against me: for Tobiah and Sanballat had
hired him.

6:13 Therefore was he hired, that I should be afraid, and do so, and
sin, and that they might have matter for an evil report, that they
might reproach me.

6:14 My God, think thou upon Tobiah and Sanballat according to these
their works, and on the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of the
prophets, that would have put me in fear.

6:15 So the wall was finished in the twenty and fifth day of the month
Elul, in fifty and two days.

6:16 And it came to pass, that when all our enemies heard thereof, and
all the heathen that were about us saw these things, they were much
cast down in their own eyes: for they perceived that this work was
wrought of our God.

6:17 Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters unto
Tobiah, and the letters of Tobiah came unto them.

6:18 For there were many in Judah sworn unto him, because he was the
son in law of Shechaniah the son of Arah; and his son Johanan had
taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah.

6:19 Also they reported his good deeds before me, and uttered my words
to him. And Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.

7:1 Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the
doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed,
7:2 That I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of the
palace, charge over Jerusalem: for he was a faithful man, and feared
God above many.

7:3 And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened
until the sun be hot; and while they stand by, let them shut the
doors, and bar them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of
Jerusalem, every one in his watch, and every one to be over against
his house.

7:4 Now the city was large and great: but the people were few therein,
and the houses were not builded.

7:5 And my God put into mine heart to gather together the nobles, and
the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy.
And I found a register of the genealogy of them which came up at the
first, and found written therein, 7:6 These are the children of the
province, that went up out of the captivity, of those that had been
carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried
away, and came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, every one unto his
city; 7:7 Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah,
Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum,
Baanah. The number, I say, of the men of the people of Israel was
this; 7:8 The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy and
two.

7:9 The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two.

7:10 The children of Arah, six hundred fifty and two.

7:11 The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab,
two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen.

7:12 The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.

7:13 The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty and five.

7:14 The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore.

7:15 The children of Binnui, six hundred forty and eight.

7:16 The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and eight.

7:17 The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty and two.

7:18 The children of Adonikam, six hundred threescore and seven.

7:19 The children of Bigvai, two thousand threescore and seven.

7:20 The children of Adin, six hundred fifty and five.

7:21 The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.

7:22 The children of Hashum, three hundred twenty and eight.

7:23 The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and four.

7:24 The children of Hariph, an hundred and twelve.

7:25 The children of Gibeon, ninety and five.

7:26 The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, an hundred fourscore and
eight.

7:27 The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight.

7:28 The men of Bethazmaveth, forty and two.

7:29 The men of Kirjathjearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred
forty and three.

7:30 The men of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty and one.

7:31 The men of Michmas, an hundred and twenty and two.

7:32 The men of Bethel and Ai, an hundred twenty and three.

7:33 The men of the other Nebo, fifty and two.

7:34 The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and
four.

7:35 The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty.

7:36 The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five.

7:37 The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and
one.

7:38 The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty.

7:39 The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua,
nine hundred seventy and three.

7:40 The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two.

7:41 The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven.

7:42 The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.

7:43 The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, and of the
children of Hodevah, seventy and four.

7:44 The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred forty and eight.

7:45 The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the
children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the
children of Shobai, an hundred thirty and eight.

7:46 The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hashupha,
the children of Tabbaoth, 7:47 The children of Keros, the children of
Sia, the children of Padon, 7:48 The children of Lebana, the children
of Hagaba, the children of Shalmai, 7:49 The children of Hanan, the
children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, 7:50 The children of
Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, 7:51 The
children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Phaseah,
7:52 The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of
Nephishesim, 7:53 The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the
children of Harhur, 7:54 The children of Bazlith, the children of
Mehida, the children of Harsha, 7:55 The children of Barkos, the
children of Sisera, the children of Tamah, 7:56 The children of
Neziah, the children of Hatipha.

7:57 The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, the
children of Sophereth, the children of Perida, 7:58 The children of
Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel, 7:59 The
children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of
Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Amon.

7:60 All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants, were
three hundred ninety and two.

7:61 And these were they which went up also from Telmelah, Telharesha,
Cherub, Addon, and Immer: but they could not shew their father's
house, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel.

7:62 The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of
Nekoda, six hundred forty and two.

7:63 And of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz,
the children of Barzillai, which took one of the daughters of
Barzillai the Gileadite to wife, and was called after their name.

7:64 These sought their register among those that were reckoned by
genealogy, but it was not found: therefore were they, as polluted, put
from the priesthood.

7:65 And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they should not eat of the
most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.

7:66 The whole congregation together was forty and two thousand three
hundred and threescore, 7:67 Beside their manservants and their
maidservants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty
and seven: and they had two hundred forty and five singing men and
singing women.

7:68 Their horses, seven hundred thirty and six: their mules, two
hundred forty and five: 7:69 Their camels, four hundred thirty and
five: six thousand seven hundred and twenty asses.

7:70 And some of the chief of the fathers gave unto the work. The
Tirshatha gave to the treasure a thousand drams of gold, fifty basons,
five hundred and thirty priests' garments.

7:71 And some of the chief of the fathers gave to the treasure of the
work twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand and two hundred
pound of silver.

7:72 And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand
drams of gold, and two thousand pound of silver, and threescore and
seven priests' garments.

7:73 So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the
singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinims, and all Israel,
dwelt in their cities; and when the seventh month came, the children
of Israel were in their cities.

8:1 And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into
the street that was before the water gate; and they spake unto Ezra
the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the LORD had
commanded to Israel.

8:2 And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation both
of men and women, and all that could hear with understanding, upon the
first day of the seventh month.

8:3 And he read therein before the street that was before the water
gate from the morning until midday, before the men and the women, and
those that could understand; and the ears of all the people were
attentive unto the book of the law.

8:4 And Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood, which they had
made for the purpose; and beside him stood Mattithiah, and Shema, and
Anaiah, and Urijah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah, on his right hand; and
on his left hand, Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchiah, and Hashum, and
Hashbadana, Zechariah, and Meshullam.

8:5 And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people; (for he
was above all the people;) and when he opened it, all the people stood
up: 8:6 And Ezra blessed the LORD, the great God. And all the people
answered, Amen, Amen, with lifting up their hands: and they bowed
their heads, and worshipped the LORD with their faces to the ground.

8:7 Also Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai,
Hodijah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the
Levites, caused the people to understand the law: and the people stood
in their place.

8:8 So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave
the sense, and caused them to understand the reading.

8:9 And Nehemiah, which is the Tirshatha, and Ezra the priest the
scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all the
people, This day is holy unto the LORD your God; mourn not, nor weep.
For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the law.

8:10 Then he said unto them, Go your way, eat the fat, and drink the
sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared: for
this day is holy unto our LORD: neither be ye sorry; for the joy of
the LORD is your strength.

8:11 So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace,
for the day is holy; neither be ye grieved.

8:12 And all the people went their way to eat, and to drink, and to
send portions, and to make great mirth, because they had understood
the words that were declared unto them.

8:13 And on the second day were gathered together the chief of the
fathers of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, unto Ezra the
scribe, even to understand the words of the law.

8:14 And they found written in the law which the LORD had commanded by
Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast
of the seventh month: 8:15 And that they should publish and proclaim
in all their cities, and in Jerusalem, saying, Go forth unto the
mount, and fetch olive branches, and pine branches, and myrtle
branches, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make
booths, as it is written.

8:16 So the people went forth, and brought them, and made themselves
booths, every one upon the roof of his house, and in their courts, and
in the courts of the house of God, and in the street of the water
gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim.

8:17 And all the congregation of them that were come again out of the
captivity made booths, and sat under the booths: for since the days of
Jeshua the son of Nun unto that day had not the children of Israel
done so. And there was very great gladness.

8:18 Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in
the book of the law of God. And they kept the feast seven days; and on
the eighth day was a solemn assembly, according unto the manner.

9:1 Now in the twenty and fourth day of this month the children of
Israel were assembled with fasting, and with sackclothes, and earth
upon them.

9:2 And the seed of Israel separated themselves from all strangers,
and stood and confessed their sins, and the iniquities of their
fathers.

9:3 And they stood up in their place, and read in the book of the law
of the LORD their God one fourth part of the day; and another fourth
part they confessed, and worshipped the LORD their God.

9:4 Then stood up upon the stairs, of the Levites, Jeshua, and Bani,
Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani, and cried
with a loud voice unto the LORD their God.

9:5 Then the Levites, Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabniah,
Sherebiah, Hodijah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, Stand up and bless
the LORD your God for ever and ever: and blessed be thy glorious name,
which is exalted above all blessing and praise.

9:6 Thou, even thou, art LORD alone; thou hast made heaven, the heaven
of heavens, with all their host, the earth, and all things that are
therein, the seas, and all that is therein, and thou preservest them
all; and the host of heaven worshippeth thee.

9:7 Thou art the LORD the God, who didst choose Abram, and broughtest
him forth out of Ur of the Chaldees, and gavest him the name of
Abraham; 9:8 And foundest his heart faithful before thee, and madest a
covenant with him to give the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites,
the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Jebusites, and the
Girgashites, to give it, I say, to his seed, and hast performed thy
words; for thou art righteous: 9:9 And didst see the affliction of our
fathers in Egypt, and heardest their cry by the Red sea; 9:10 And
shewedst signs and wonders upon Pharaoh, and on all his servants, and
on all the people of his land: for thou knewest that they dealt
proudly against them. So didst thou get thee a name, as it is this
day.

9:11 And thou didst divide the sea before them, so that they went
through the midst of the sea on the dry land; and their persecutors
thou threwest into the deeps, as a stone into the mighty waters.

9:12 Moreover thou leddest them in the day by a cloudy pillar; and in
the night by a pillar of fire, to give them light in the way wherein
they should go.

9:13 Thou camest down also upon mount Sinai, and spakest with them
from heaven, and gavest them right judgments, and true laws, good
statutes and commandments: 9:14 And madest known unto them thy holy
sabbath, and commandedst them precepts, statutes, and laws, by the
hand of Moses thy servant: 9:15 And gavest them bread from heaven for
their hunger, and broughtest forth water for them out of the rock for
their thirst, and promisedst them that they should go in to possess
the land which thou hadst sworn to give them.

9:16 But they and our fathers dealt proudly, and hardened their necks,
and hearkened not to thy commandments, 9:17 And refused to obey,
neither were mindful of thy wonders that thou didst among them; but
hardened their necks, and in their rebellion appointed a captain to
return to their bondage: but thou art a God ready to pardon, gracious
and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and forsookest
them not.

9:18 Yea, when they had made them a molten calf, and said, This is thy
God that brought thee up out of Egypt, and had wrought great
provocations; 9:19 Yet thou in thy manifold mercies forsookest them
not in the wilderness: the pillar of the cloud departed not from them
by day, to lead them in the way; neither the pillar of fire by night,
to shew them light, and the way wherein they should go.

9:20 Thou gavest also thy good spirit to instruct them, and
withheldest not thy manna from their mouth, and gavest them water for
their thirst.

9:21 Yea, forty years didst thou sustain them in the wilderness, so
that they lacked nothing; their clothes waxed not old, and their feet
swelled not.

9:22 Moreover thou gavest them kingdoms and nations, and didst divide
them into corners: so they possessed the land of Sihon, and the land
of the king of Heshbon, and the land of Og king of Bashan.

9:23 Their children also multipliedst thou as the stars of heaven, and
broughtest them into the land, concerning which thou hadst promised to
their fathers, that they should go in to possess it.

9:24 So the children went in and possessed the land, and thou
subduedst before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, and
gavest them into their hands, with their kings, and the people of the
land, that they might do with them as they would.

9:25 And they took strong cities, and a fat land, and possessed houses
full of all goods, wells digged, vineyards, and oliveyards, and fruit
trees in abundance: so they did eat, and were filled, and became fat,
and delighted themselves in thy great goodness.

9:26 Nevertheless they were disobedient, and rebelled against thee,
and cast thy law behind their backs, and slew thy prophets which
testified against them to turn them to thee, and they wrought great
provocations.

9:27 Therefore thou deliveredst them into the hand of their enemies,
who vexed them: and in the time of their trouble, when they cried unto
thee, thou heardest them from heaven; and according to thy manifold
mercies thou gavest them saviours, who saved them out of the hand of
their enemies.

9:28 But after they had rest, they did evil again before thee:
therefore leftest thou them in the land of their enemies, so that they
had the dominion over them: yet when they returned, and cried unto
thee, thou heardest them from heaven; and many times didst thou
deliver them according to thy mercies; 9:29 And testifiedst against
them, that thou mightest bring them again unto thy law: yet they dealt
proudly, and hearkened not unto thy commandments, but sinned against
thy judgments, (which if a man do, he shall live in them;) and
withdrew the shoulder, and hardened their neck, and would not hear.

9:30 Yet many years didst thou forbear them, and testifiedst against
them by thy spirit in thy prophets: yet would they not give ear:
therefore gavest thou them into the hand of the people of the lands.

9:31 Nevertheless for thy great mercies' sake thou didst not utterly
consume them, nor forsake them; for thou art a gracious and merciful
God.

9:32 Now therefore, our God, the great, the mighty, and the terrible
God, who keepest covenant and mercy, let not all the trouble seem
little before thee, that hath come upon us, on our kings, on our
princes, and on our priests, and on our prophets, and on our fathers,
and on all thy people, since the time of the kings of Assyria unto
this day.

9:33 Howbeit thou art just in all that is brought upon us; for thou
hast done right, but we have done wickedly: 9:34 Neither have our
kings, our princes, our priests, nor our fathers, kept thy law, nor
hearkened unto thy commandments and thy testimonies, wherewith thou
didst testify against them.

9:35 For they have not served thee in their kingdom, and in thy great
goodness that thou gavest them, and in the large and fat land which
thou gavest before them, neither turned they from their wicked works.

9:36 Behold, we are servants this day, and for the land that thou
gavest unto our fathers to eat the fruit thereof and the good thereof,
behold, we are servants in it: 9:37 And it yieldeth much increase unto
the kings whom thou hast set over us because of our sins: also they
have dominion over our bodies, and over our cattle, at their pleasure,
and we are in great distress.

9:38 And because of all this we make a sure covenant, and write it;
and our princes, Levites, and priests, seal unto it.

10:1 Now those that sealed were, Nehemiah, the Tirshatha, the son of
Hachaliah, and Zidkijah, 10:2 Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah, 10:3 Pashur,
Amariah, Malchijah, 10:4 Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch, 10:5 Harim,
Meremoth, Obadiah, 10:6 Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch, 10:7 Meshullam,
Abijah, Mijamin, 10:8 Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah: these were the
priests.

10:9 And the Levites: both Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the
sons of Henadad, Kadmiel; 10:10 And their brethren, Shebaniah,
Hodijah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan, 10:11 Micha, Rehob, Hashabiah, 10:12
Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah, 10:13 Hodijah, Bani, Beninu.

10:14 The chief of the people; Parosh, Pahathmoab, Elam, Zatthu, Bani,
10:15 Bunni, Azgad, Bebai, 10:16 Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin, 10:17 Ater,
Hizkijah, Azzur, 10:18 Hodijah, Hashum, Bezai, 10:19 Hariph, Anathoth,
Nebai, 10:20 Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir, 10:21 Meshezabeel, Zadok,
Jaddua, 10:22 Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah, 10:23 Hoshea, Hananiah, Hashub,
10:24 Hallohesh, Pileha, Shobek, 10:25 Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,
10:26 And Ahijah, Hanan, Anan, 10:27 Malluch, Harim, Baanah.

10:28 And the rest of the people, the priests, the Levites, the
porters, the singers, the Nethinims, and all they that had separated
themselves from the people of the lands unto the law of God, their
wives, their sons, and their daughters, every one having knowledge,
and having understanding; 10:29 They clave to their brethren, their
nobles, and entered into a curse, and into an oath, to walk in God's
law, which was given by Moses the servant of God, and to observe and
do all the commandments of the LORD our Lord, and his judgments and
his statutes; 10:30 And that we would not give our daughters unto the
people of the land, not take their daughters for our sons: 10:31 And
if the people of the land bring ware or any victuals on the sabbath
day to sell, that we would not buy it of them on the sabbath, or on
the holy day: and that we would leave the seventh year, and the
exaction of every debt.

10:32 Also we made ordinances for us, to charge ourselves yearly with
the third part of a shekel for the service of the house of our God;
10:33 For the shewbread, and for the continual meat offering, and for
the continual burnt offering, of the sabbaths, of the new moons, for
the set feasts, and for the holy things, and for the sin offerings to
make an atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our
God.

10:34 And we cast the lots among the priests, the Levites, and the
people, for the wood offering, to bring it into the house of our God,
after the houses of our fathers, at times appointed year by year, to
burn upon the altar of the LORD our God, as it is written in the law:
10:35 And to bring the firstfruits of our ground, and the firstfruits
of all fruit of all trees, year by year, unto the house of the LORD:
10:36 Also the firstborn of our sons, and of our cattle, as it is
written in the law, and the firstlings of our herds and of our flocks,
to bring to the house of our God, unto the priests that minister in
the house of our God: 10:37 And that we should bring the firstfruits
of our dough, and our offerings, and the fruit of all manner of trees,
of wine and of oil, unto the priests, to the chambers of the house of
our God; and the tithes of our ground unto the Levites, that the same
Levites might have the tithes in all the cities of our tillage.

10:38 And the priest the son of Aaron shall be with the Levites, when
the Levites take tithes: and the Levites shall bring up the tithe of
the tithes unto the house of our God, to the chambers, into the
treasure house.

10:39 For the children of Israel and the children of Levi shall bring
the offering of the corn, of the new wine, and the oil, unto the
chambers, where are the vessels of the sanctuary, and the priests that
minister, and the porters, and the singers: and we will not forsake
the house of our God.

11:1 And the rulers of the people dwelt at Jerusalem: the rest of the
people also cast lots, to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem the
holy city, and nine parts to dwell in other cities.

11:2 And the people blessed all the men, that willingly offered
themselves to dwell at Jerusalem.

11:3 Now these are the chief of the province that dwelt in Jerusalem:
but in the cities of Judah dwelt every one in his possession in their
cities, to wit, Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the
Nethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants.

11:4 And at Jerusalem dwelt certain of the children of Judah, and of
the children of Benjamin. Of the children of Judah; Athaiah the son of
Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of
Shephatiah, the son of Mahalaleel, of the children of Perez; 11:5 And
Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah,
the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son
of Shiloni.

11:6 All the sons of Perez that dwelt at Jerusalem were four hundred
threescore and eight valiant men.

11:7 And these are the sons of Benjamin; Sallu the son of Meshullam,
the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of
Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jesaiah.

11:8 And after him Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred twenty and eight.

11:9 And Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer: and Judah the son
of Senuah was second over the city.

11:10 Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin.

11:11 Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of
Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, was the ruler of the
house of God.

11:12 And their brethren that did the work of the house were eight
hundred twenty and two: and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of
Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashur,
the son of Malchiah.

11:13 And his brethren, chief of the fathers, two hundred forty and
two: and Amashai the son of Azareel, the son of Ahasai, the son of
Meshillemoth, the son of Immer, 11:14 And their brethren, mighty men
of valour, an hundred twenty and eight: and their overseer was
Zabdiel, the son of one of the great men.

11:15 Also of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hashub, the son of
Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni; 11:16 And Shabbethai
and Jozabad, of the chief of the Levites, had the oversight of the
outward business of the house of God.

11:17 And Mattaniah the son of Micha, the son of Zabdi, the son of
Asaph, was the principal to begin the thanksgiving in prayer: and
Bakbukiah the second among his brethren, and Abda the son of Shammua,
the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.

11:18 All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred fourscore and
four.

11:19 Moreover the porters, Akkub, Talmon, and their brethren that
kept the gates, were an hundred seventy and two.

11:20 And the residue of Israel, of the priests, and the Levites, were
in all the cities of Judah, every one in his inheritance.

11:21 But the Nethinims dwelt in Ophel: and Ziha and Gispa were over
the Nethinims.

11:22 The overseer also of the Levites at Jerusalem was Uzzi the son
of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micha.
Of the sons of Asaph, the singers were over the business of the house
of God.

11:23 For it was the king's commandment concerning them, that a
certain portion should be for the singers, due for every day.

11:24 And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabeel, of the children of Zerah
the son of Judah, was at the king's hand in all matters concerning the
people.

11:25 And for the villages, with their fields, some of the children of
Judah dwelt at Kirjatharba, and in the villages thereof, and at Dibon,
and in the villages thereof, and at Jekabzeel, and in the villages
thereof, 11:26 And at Jeshua, and at Moladah, and at Bethphelet, 11:27
And at Hazarshual, and at Beersheba, and in the villages thereof,
11:28 And at Ziklag, and at Mekonah, and in the villages thereof,
11:29 And at Enrimmon, and at Zareah, and at Jarmuth, 11:30 Zanoah,
Adullam, and in their villages, at Lachish, and the fields thereof, at
Azekah, and in the villages thereof. And they dwelt from Beersheba
unto the valley of Hinnom.

11:31 The children also of Benjamin from Geba dwelt at Michmash, and
Aija, and Bethel, and in their villages.

11:32 And at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah, 11:33 Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,
11:34 Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat, 11:35 Lod, and Ono, the valley of
craftsmen.

11:36 And of the Levites were divisions in Judah, and in Benjamin.

12:1 Now these are the priests and the Levites that went up with
Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,
12:2 Amariah, Malluch, Hattush, 12:3 Shechaniah, Rehum, Meremoth, 12:4
Iddo, Ginnetho, Abijah, 12:5 Miamin, Maadiah, Bilgah, 12:6 Shemaiah,
and Joiarib, Jedaiah, 12:7 Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These were
the chief of the priests and of their brethren in the days of Jeshua.

12:8 Moreover the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah,
and Mattaniah, which was over the thanksgiving, he and his brethren.

12:9 Also Bakbukiah and Unni, their brethren, were over against them
in the watches.

12:10 And Jeshua begat Joiakim, Joiakim also begat Eliashib, and
Eliashib begat Joiada, 12:11 And Joiada begat Jonathan, and Jonathan
begat Jaddua.

12:12 And in the days of Joiakim were priests, the chief of the
fathers: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah; 12:13 Of Ezra,
Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan; 12:14 Of Melicu, Jonathan; of
Shebaniah, Joseph; 12:15 Of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai; 12:16 Of
Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam; 12:17 Of Abijah, Zichri; of
Miniamin, of Moadiah, Piltai: 12:18 Of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah,
Jehonathan; 12:19 And of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi; 12:20 Of
Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber; 12:21 Of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of
Jedaiah, Nethaneel.

12:22 The Levites in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, and
Jaddua, were recorded chief of the fathers: also the priests, to the
reign of Darius the Persian.

12:23 The sons of Levi, the chief of the fathers, were written in the
book of the chronicles, even until the days of Johanan the son of
Eliashib.

12:24 And the chief of the Levites: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua
the son of Kadmiel, with their brethren over against them, to praise
and to give thanks, according to the commandment of David the man of
God, ward over against ward.

12:25 Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub,
were porters keeping the ward at the thresholds of the gates.

12:26 These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son of
Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra the
priest, the scribe.

12:27 And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the
Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep
the dedication with gladness, both with thanksgivings, and with
singing, with cymbals, psalteries, and with harps.

12:28 And the sons of the singers gathered themselves together, both
out of the plain country round about Jerusalem, and from the villages
of Netophathi; 12:29 Also from the house of Gilgal, and out of the
fields of Geba and Azmaveth: for the singers had builded them villages
round about Jerusalem.

12:30 And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and
purified the people, and the gates, and the wall.

12:31 Then I brought up the princes of Judah upon the wall, and
appointed two great companies of them that gave thanks, whereof one
went on the right hand upon the wall toward the dung gate: 12:32 And
after them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of Judah, 12:33 And
Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam, 12:34 Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah,
and Jeremiah, 12:35 And certain of the priests' sons with trumpets;
namely, Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of
Mattaniah, the son of Michaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph:
12:36 And his brethren, Shemaiah, and Azarael, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai,
Nethaneel, and Judah, Hanani, with the musical instruments of David
the man of God, and Ezra the scribe before them.

12:37 And at the fountain gate, which was over against them, they went
up by the stairs of the city of David, at the going up of the wall,
above the house of David, even unto the water gate eastward.

12:38 And the other company of them that gave thanks went over against
them, and I after them, and the half of the people upon the wall, from
beyond the tower of the furnaces even unto the broad wall; 12:39 And
from above the gate of Ephraim, and above the old gate, and above the
fish gate, and the tower of Hananeel, and the tower of Meah, even unto
the sheep gate: and they stood still in the prison gate.

12:40 So stood the two companies of them that gave thanks in the house
of God, and I, and the half of the rulers with me: 12:41 And the
priests; Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Michaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah,
and Hananiah, with trumpets; 12:42 And Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and
Eleazar, and Uzzi, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer.
And the singers sang loud, with Jezrahiah their overseer.

12:43 Also that day they offered great sacrifices, and rejoiced: for
God had made them rejoice with great joy: the wives also and the
children rejoiced: so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar
off.

12:44 And at that time were some appointed over the chambers for the
treasures, for the offerings, for the firstfruits, and for the tithes,
to gather into them out of the fields of the cities the portions of
the law for the priests and Levites: for Judah rejoiced for the
priests and for the Levites that waited.

12:45 And both the singers and the porters kept the ward of their God,
and the ward of the purification, according to the commandment of
David, and of Solomon his son.

12:46 For in the days of David and Asaph of old there were chief of
the singers, and songs of praise and thanksgiving unto God.

12:47 And all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of
Nehemiah, gave the portions of the singers and the porters, every day
his portion: and they sanctified holy things unto the Levites; and the
Levites sanctified them unto the children of Aaron.

13:1 On that day they read in the book of Moses in the audience of the
people; and therein was found written, that the Ammonite and the
Moabite should not come into the congregation of God for ever; 13:2
Because they met not the children of Israel with bread and with water,
but hired Balaam against them, that he should curse them: howbeit our
God turned the curse into a blessing.

13:3 Now it came to pass, when they had heard the law, that they
separated from Israel all the mixed multitude.

13:4 And before this, Eliashib the priest, having the oversight of the
chamber of the house of our God, was allied unto Tobiah: 13:5 And he
had prepared for him a great chamber, where aforetime they laid the
meat offerings, the frankincense, and the vessels, and the tithes of
the corn, the new wine, and the oil, which was commanded to be given
to the Levites, and the singers, and the porters; and the offerings of
the priests.

13:6 But in all this time was not I at Jerusalem: for in the two and
thirtieth year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon came I unto the king, and
after certain days obtained I leave of the king: 13:7 And I came to
Jerusalem, and understood of the evil that Eliashib did for Tobiah, in
preparing him a chamber in the courts of the house of God.

13:8 And it grieved me sore: therefore I cast forth all the household
stuff to Tobiah out of the chamber.

13:9 Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers: and thither
brought I again the vessels of the house of God, with the meat
offering and the frankincense.

13:10 And I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been
given them: for the Levites and the singers, that did the work, were
fled every one to his field.

13:11 Then contended I with the rulers, and said, Why is the house of
God forsaken? And I gathered them together, and set them in their
place.

13:12 Then brought all Judah the tithe of the corn and the new wine
and the oil unto the treasuries.

13:13 And I made treasurers over the treasuries, Shelemiah the priest,
and Zadok the scribe, and of the Levites, Pedaiah: and next to them
was Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah: for they were
counted faithful, and their office was to distribute unto their
brethren.

13:14 Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and wipe not out my good
deeds that I have done for the house of my God, and for the offices
thereof.

13:15 In those days saw I in Judah some treading wine presses on the
sabbath, and bringing in sheaves, and lading asses; as also wine,
grapes, and figs, and all manner of burdens, which they brought into
Jerusalem on the sabbath day: and I testified against them in the day
wherein they sold victuals.

13:16 There dwelt men of Tyre also therein, which brought fish, and
all manner of ware, and sold on the sabbath unto the children of
Judah, and in Jerusalem.

13:17 Then I contended with the nobles of Judah, and said unto them,
What evil thing is this that ye do, and profane the sabbath day?
13:18 Did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all this
evil upon us, and upon this city? yet ye bring more wrath upon Israel
by profaning the sabbath.

13:19 And it came to pass, that when the gates of Jerusalem began to
be dark before the sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be shut,
and charged that they should not be opened till after the sabbath: and
some of my servants set I at the gates, that there should no burden be
brought in on the sabbath day.

13:20 So the merchants and sellers of all kind of ware lodged without
Jerusalem once or twice.

13:21 Then I testified against them, and said unto them, Why lodge ye
about the wall? if ye do so again, I will lay hands on you. From that
time forth came they no more on the sabbath.

13:22 And I commanded the Levites that they should cleanse themselves,
and that they should come and keep the gates, to sanctify the sabbath
day.

Remember me, O my God, concerning this also, and spare me according to
the greatness of thy mercy.

13:23 In those days also saw I Jews that had married wives of Ashdod,
of Ammon, and of Moab: 13:24 And their children spake half in the
speech of Ashdod, and could not speak in the Jews' language, but
according to the language of each people.

13:25 And I contended with them, and cursed them, and smote certain of
them, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by God, saying,
Ye shall not give your daughters unto their sons, nor take their
daughters unto your sons, or for yourselves.

13:26 Did not Solomon king of Israel sin by these things? yet among
many nations was there no king like him, who was beloved of his God,
and God made him king over all Israel: nevertheless even him did
outlandish women cause to sin.

13:27 Shall we then hearken unto you to do all this great evil, to
transgress against our God in marrying strange wives?  13:28 And one
of the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was son in
law to Sanballat the Horonite: therefore I chased him from me.

13:29 Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the
priesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood, and of the Levites.

13:30 Thus cleansed I them from all strangers, and appointed the wards
of the priests and the Levites, every one in his business; 13:31 And
for the wood offering, at times appointed, and for the firstfruits.
Remember me, O my God, for good.




The Book of Esther


1:1 Now it came to pass in the days of Ahasuerus, (this is Ahasuerus
which reigned, from India even unto Ethiopia, over an hundred and
seven and twenty provinces:) 1:2 That in those days, when the king
Ahasuerus sat on the throne of his kingdom, which was in Shushan the
palace, 1:3 In the third year of his reign, he made a feast unto all
his princes and his servants; the power of Persia and Media, the
nobles and princes of the provinces, being before him: 1:4 When he
shewed the riches of his glorious kingdom and the honour of his
excellent majesty many days, even an hundred and fourscore days.

1:5 And when these days were expired, the king made a feast unto all
the people that were present in Shushan the palace, both unto great
and small, seven days, in the court of the garden of the king's
palace; 1:6 Where were white, green, and blue, hangings, fastened with
cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble:
the beds were of gold and silver, upon a pavement of red, and blue,
and white, and black, marble.

1:7 And they gave them drink in vessels of gold, (the vessels being
diverse one from another,) and royal wine in abundance, according to
the state of the king.

1:8 And the drinking was according to the law; none did compel: for so
the king had appointed to all the officers of his house, that they
should do according to every man's pleasure.

1:9 Also Vashti the queen made a feast for the women in the royal
house which belonged to king Ahasuerus.

1:10 On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with
wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, and Abagtha,
Zethar, and Carcas, the seven chamberlains that served in the presence
of Ahasuerus the king, 1:11 To bring Vashti the queen before the king
with the crown royal, to shew the people and the princes her beauty:
for she was fair to look on.

1:12 But the queen Vashti refused to come at the king's commandment by
his chamberlains: therefore was the king very wroth, and his anger
burned in him.

1:13 Then the king said to the wise men, which knew the times, (for so
was the king's manner toward all that knew law and judgment: 1:14 And
the next unto him was Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres,
Marsena, and Memucan, the seven princes of Persia and Media, which saw
the king's face, and which sat the first in the kingdom;) 1:15 What
shall we do unto the queen Vashti according to law, because she hath
not performed the commandment of the king Ahasuerus by the
chamberlains?  1:16 And Memucan answered before the king and the
princes, Vashti the queen hath not done wrong to the king only, but
also to all the princes, and to all the people that are in all the
provinces of the king Ahasuerus.

1:17 For this deed of the queen shall come abroad unto all women, so
that they shall despise their husbands in their eyes, when it shall be
reported, The king Ahasuerus commanded Vashti the queen to be brought
in before him, but she came not.

1:18 Likewise shall the ladies of Persia and Media say this day unto
all the king's princes, which have heard of the deed of the queen.
Thus shall there arise too much contempt and wrath.

1:19 If it please the king, let there go a royal commandment from him,
and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes,
that it be not altered, That Vashti come no more before king
Ahasuerus; and let the king give her royal estate unto another that is
better than she.

1:20 And when the king's decree which he shall make shall be published
throughout all his empire, (for it is great,) all the wives shall give
to their husbands honour, both to great and small.

1:21 And the saying pleased the king and the princes; and the king did
according to the word of Memucan: 1:22 For he sent letters into all
the king's provinces, into every province according to the writing
thereof, and to every people after their language, that every man
should bear rule in his own house, and that it should be published
according to the language of every people.

2:1 After these things, when the wrath of king Ahasuerus was appeased,
he remembered Vashti, and what she had done, and what was decreed
against her.

2:2 Then said the king's servants that ministered unto him, Let there
be fair young virgins sought for the king: 2:3 And let the king
appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, that they may
gather together all the fair young virgins unto Shushan the palace, to
the house of the women, unto the custody of Hege the king's
chamberlain, keeper of the women; and let their things for
purification be given them: 2:4 And let the maiden which pleaseth the
king be queen instead of Vashti.

And the thing pleased the king; and he did so.

2:5 Now in Shushan the palace there was a certain Jew, whose name was
Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a
Benjamite; 2:6 Who had been carried away from Jerusalem with the
captivity which had been carried away with Jeconiah king of Judah,
whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away.

2:7 And he brought up Hadassah, that is, Esther, his uncle's daughter:
for she had neither father nor mother, and the maid was fair and
beautiful; whom Mordecai, when her father and mother were dead, took
for his own daughter.

2:8 So it came to pass, when the king's commandment and his decree was
heard, and when many maidens were gathered together unto Shushan the
palace, to the custody of Hegai, that Esther was brought also unto the
king's house, to the custody of Hegai, keeper of the women.

2:9 And the maiden pleased him, and she obtained kindness of him; and
he speedily gave her her things for purification, with such things as
belonged to her, and seven maidens, which were meet to be given her,
out of the king's house: and he preferred her and her maids unto the
best place of the house of the women.

2:10 Esther had not shewed her people nor her kindred: for Mordecai
had charged her that she should not shew it.

2:11 And Mordecai walked every day before the court of the women's
house, to know how Esther did, and what should become of her.

2:12 Now when every maid's turn was come to go in to king Ahasuerus,
after that she had been twelve months, according to the manner of the
women, (for so were the days of their purifications accomplished, to
wit, six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with sweet odours,
and with other things for the purifying of the women;) 2:13 Then thus
came every maiden unto the king; whatsoever she desired was given her
to go with her out of the house of the women unto the king's house.

2:14 In the evening she went, and on the morrow she returned into the
second house of the women, to the custody of Shaashgaz, the king's
chamberlain, which kept the concubines: she came in unto the king no
more, except the king delighted in her, and that she were called by
name.

2:15 Now when the turn of Esther, the daughter of Abihail the uncle of
Mordecai, who had taken her for his daughter, was come to go in unto
the king, she required nothing but what Hegai the king's chamberlain,
the keeper of the women, appointed. And Esther obtained favour in the
sight of all them that looked upon her.

2:16 So Esther was taken unto king Ahasuerus into his house royal in
the tenth month, which is the month Tebeth, in the seventh year of his
reign.

2:17 And the king loved Esther above all the women, and she obtained
grace and favour in his sight more than all the virgins; so that he
set the royal crown upon her head, and made her queen instead of
Vashti.

2:18 Then the king made a great feast unto all his princes and his
servants, even Esther's feast; and he made a release to the provinces,
and gave gifts, according to the state of the king.

2:19 And when the virgins were gathered together the second time, then
Mordecai sat in the king's gate.

2:20 Esther had not yet shewed her kindred nor her people; as Mordecai
had charged her: for Esther did the commandment of Mordecai, like as
when she was brought up with him.

2:21 In those days, while Mordecai sat in the king's gate, two of the
king's chamberlains, Bigthan and Teresh, of those which kept the door,
were wroth, and sought to lay hands on the king Ahasuerus.

2:22 And the thing was known to Mordecai, who told it unto Esther the
queen; and Esther certified the king thereof in Mordecai's name.

2:23 And when inquisition was made of the matter, it was found out;
therefore they were both hanged on a tree: and it was written in the
book of the chronicles before the king.

3:1 After these things did king Ahasuerus promote Haman the son of
Hammedatha the Agagite, and advanced him, and set his seat above all
the princes that were with him.

3:2 And all the king's servants, that were in the king's gate, bowed,
and reverenced Haman: for the king had so commanded concerning him.
But Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence.

3:3 Then the king's servants, which were in the king's gate, said unto
Mordecai, Why transgressest thou the king's commandment?  3:4 Now it
came to pass, when they spake daily unto him, and he hearkened not
unto them, that they told Haman, to see whether Mordecai's matters
would stand: for he had told them that he was a Jew.

3:5 And when Haman saw that Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence,
then was Haman full of wrath.

3:6 And he thought scorn to lay hands on Mordecai alone; for they had
shewed him the people of Mordecai: wherefore Haman sought to destroy
all the Jews that were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahasuerus, even
the people of Mordecai.

3:7 In the first month, that is, the month Nisan, in the twelfth year
of king Ahasuerus, they cast Pur, that is, the lot, before Haman from
day to day, and from month to month, to the twelfth month, that is,
the month Adar.

3:8 And Haman said unto king Ahasuerus, There is a certain people
scattered abroad and dispersed among the people in all the provinces
of thy kingdom; and their laws are diverse from all people; neither
keep they the king's laws: therefore it is not for the king's profit
to suffer them.

3:9 If it please the king, let it be written that they may be
destroyed: and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver to the hands
of those that have the charge of the business, to bring it into the
king's treasuries.

3:10 And the king took his ring from his hand, and gave it unto Haman
the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews' enemy.

3:11 And the king said unto Haman, The silver is given to thee, the
people also, to do with them as it seemeth good to thee.

3:12 Then were the king's scribes called on the thirteenth day of the
first month, and there was written according to all that Haman had
commanded unto the king's lieutenants, and to the governors that were
over every province, and to the rulers of every people of every
province according to the writing thereof, and to every people after
their language; in the name of king Ahasuerus was it written, and
sealed with the king's ring.

3:13 And the letters were sent by posts into all the king's provinces,
to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish, all Jews, both young and
old, little children and women, in one day, even upon the thirteenth
day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, and to take the
spoil of them for a prey.

3:14 The copy of the writing for a commandment to be given in every
province was published unto all people, that they should be ready
against that day.

3:15 The posts went out, being hastened by the king's commandment, and
the decree was given in Shushan the palace. And the king and Haman sat
down to drink; but the city Shushan was perplexed.

4:1 When Mordecai perceived all that was done, Mordecai rent his
clothes, and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the midst
of the city, and cried with a loud and a bitter cry; 4:2 And came even
before the king's gate: for none might enter into the king's gate
clothed with sackcloth.

4:3 And in every province, whithersoever the king's commandment and
his decree came, there was great mourning among the Jews, and fasting,
and weeping, and wailing; and many lay in sackcloth and ashes.

4:4 So Esther's maids and her chamberlains came and told it her. Then
was the queen exceedingly grieved; and she sent raiment to clothe
Mordecai, and to take away his sackcloth from him: but he received it
not.

4:5 Then called Esther for Hatach, one of the king's chamberlains,
whom he had appointed to attend upon her, and gave him a commandment
to Mordecai, to know what it was, and why it was.

4:6 So Hatach went forth to Mordecai unto the street of the city,
which was before the king's gate.

4:7 And Mordecai told him of all that had happened unto him, and of
the sum of the money that Haman had promised to pay to the king's
treasuries for the Jews, to destroy them.

4:8 Also he gave him the copy of the writing of the decree that was
given at Shushan to destroy them, to shew it unto Esther, and to
declare it unto her, and to charge her that she should go in unto the
king, to make supplication unto him, and to make request before him
for her people.

4:9 And Hatach came and told Esther the words of Mordecai.

4:10 Again Esther spake unto Hatach, and gave him commandment unto
Mordecai; 4:11 All the king's servants, and the people of the king's
provinces, do know, that whosoever, whether man or women, shall come
unto the king into the inner court, who is not called, there is one
law of his to put him to death, except such to whom the king shall
hold out the golden sceptre, that he may live: but I have not been
called to come in unto the king these thirty days.

4:12 And they told to Mordecai Esther's words.

4:13 Then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther, Think not with thyself
that thou shalt escape in the king's house, more than all the Jews.

4:14 For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall
there enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another
place; but thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed: and who
knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?
4:15 Then Esther bade them return Mordecai this answer, 4:16 Go,
gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast ye
for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day: I also and
my maidens will fast likewise; and so will I go in unto the king,
which is not according to the law: and if I perish, I perish.

4:17 So Mordecai went his way, and did according to all that Esther
had commanded him.

5:1 Now it came to pass on the third day, that Esther put on her royal
apparel, and stood in the inner court of the king's house, over
against the king's house: and the king sat upon his royal throne in
the royal house, over against the gate of the house.

5:2 And it was so, when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the
court, that she obtained favour in his sight: and the king held out to
Esther the golden sceptre that was in his hand. So Esther drew near,
and touched the top of the sceptre.

5:3 Then said the king unto her, What wilt thou, queen Esther? and
what is thy request? it shall be even given thee to the half of the
kingdom.

5:4 And Esther answered, If it seem good unto the king, let the king
and Haman come this day unto the banquet that I have prepared for him.

5:5 Then the king said, Cause Haman to make haste, that he may do as
Esther hath said. So the king and Haman came to the banquet that
Esther had prepared.

5:6 And the king said unto Esther at the banquet of wine, What is thy
petition? and it shall be granted thee: and what is thy request? even
to the half of the kingdom it shall be performed.

5:7 Then answered Esther, and said, My petition and my request is; 5:8
If I have found favour in the sight of the king, and if it please the
king to grant my petition, and to perform my request, let the king and
Haman come to the banquet that I shall prepare for them, and I will do
to morrow as the king hath said.

5:9 Then went Haman forth that day joyful and with a glad heart: but
when Haman saw Mordecai in the king's gate, that he stood not up, nor
moved for him, he was full of indignation against Mordecai.

5:10 Nevertheless Haman refrained himself: and when he came home, he
sent and called for his friends, and Zeresh his wife.

5:11 And Haman told them of the glory of his riches, and the multitude
of his children, and all the things wherein the king had promoted him,
and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the
king.

5:12 Haman said moreover, Yea, Esther the queen did let no man come in
with the king unto the banquet that she had prepared but myself; and
to morrow am I invited unto her also with the king.

5:13 Yet all this availeth me nothing, so long as I see Mordecai the
Jew sitting at the king's gate.

5:14 Then said Zeresh his wife and all his friends unto him, Let a
gallows be made of fifty cubits high, and to morrow speak thou unto
the king that Mordecai may be hanged thereon: then go thou in merrily
with the king unto the banquet. And the thing pleased Haman; and he
caused the gallows to be made.

6:1 On that night could not the king sleep, and he commanded to bring
the book of records of the chronicles; and they were read before the
king.

6:2 And it was found written, that Mordecai had told of Bigthana and
Teresh, two of the king's chamberlains, the keepers of the door, who
sought to lay hand on the king Ahasuerus.

6:3 And the king said, What honour and dignity hath been done to
Mordecai for this? Then said the king's servants that ministered unto
him, There is nothing done for him.

6:4 And the king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman was come into
the outward court of the king's house, to speak unto the king to hang
Mordecai on the gallows that he had prepared for him.

6:5 And the king's servants said unto him, Behold, Haman standeth in
the court. And the king said, Let him come in.

6:6 So Haman came in. And the king said unto him, What shall be done
unto the man whom the king delighteth to honour? Now Haman thought in
his heart, To whom would the king delight to do honour more than to
myself?  6:7 And Haman answered the king, For the man whom the king
delighteth to honour, 6:8 Let the royal apparel be brought which the
king useth to wear, and the horse that the king rideth upon, and the
crown royal which is set upon his head: 6:9 And let this apparel and
horse be delivered to the hand of one of the king's most noble
princes, that they may array the man withal whom the king delighteth
to honour, and bring him on horseback through the street of the city,
and proclaim before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the
king delighteth to honour.

6:10 Then the king said to Haman, Make haste, and take the apparel and
the horse, as thou hast said, and do even so to Mordecai the Jew, that
sitteth at the king's gate: let nothing fail of all that thou hast
spoken.

6:11 Then took Haman the apparel and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai,
and brought him on horseback through the street of the city, and
proclaimed before him, Thus shall it be done unto the man whom the
king delighteth to honour.

6:12 And Mordecai came again to the king's gate. But Haman hasted to
his house mourning, and having his head covered.

6:13 And Haman told Zeresh his wife and all his friends every thing
that had befallen him. Then said his wise men and Zeresh his wife unto
him, If Mordecai be of the seed of the Jews, before whom thou hast
begun to fall, thou shalt not prevail against him, but shalt surely
fall before him.

6:14 And while they were yet talking with him, came the king's
chamberlains, and hasted to bring Haman unto the banquet that Esther
had prepared.

7:1 So the king and Haman came to banquet with Esther the queen.

7:2 And the king said again unto Esther on the second day at the
banquet of wine, What is thy petition, queen Esther? and it shall be
granted thee: and what is thy request? and it shall be performed, even
to the half of the kingdom.

7:3 Then Esther the queen answered and said, If I have found favour in
thy sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be given me
at my petition, and my people at my request: 7:4 For we are sold, I
and my people, to be destroyed, to be slain, and to perish. But if we
had been sold for bondmen and bondwomen, I had held my tongue,
although the enemy could not countervail the king's damage.

7:5 Then the king Ahasuerus answered and said unto Esther the queen,
Who is he, and where is he, that durst presume in his heart to do so?
7:6 And Esther said, The adversary and enemy is this wicked Haman.
Then Haman was afraid before the king and the queen.

7:7 And the king arising from the banquet of wine in his wrath went
into the palace garden: and Haman stood up to make request for his
life to Esther the queen; for he saw that there was evil determined
against him by the king.

7:8 Then the king returned out of the palace garden into the place of
the banquet of wine; and Haman was fallen upon the bed whereon Esther
was. Then said the king, Will he force the queen also before me in the
house? As the word went out of king's mouth, they covered Haman's
face.

7:9 And Harbonah, one of the chamberlains, said before the king,
Behold also, the gallows fifty cubits high, which Haman had made for
Mordecai, who spoken good for the king, standeth in the house of
Haman. Then the king said, Hang him thereon.

7:10 So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for
Mordecai. Then was the king's wrath pacified.

8:1 On that day did the king Ahasuerus give the house of Haman the
Jews' enemy unto Esther the queen. And Mordecai came before the king;
for Esther had told what he was unto her.

8:2 And the king took off his ring, which he had taken from Haman, and
gave it unto Mordecai. And Esther set Mordecai over the house of
Haman.

8:3 And Esther spake yet again before the king, and fell down at his
feet, and besought him with tears to put away the mischief of Haman
the Agagite, and his device that he had devised against the Jews.

8:4 Then the king held out the golden sceptre toward Esther. So Esther
arose, and stood before the king, 8:5 And said, If it please the king,
and if I have favour in his sight, and the thing seem right before the
king, and I be pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to reverse the
letters devised by Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, which he
wrote to destroy the Jews which are in all the king's provinces: 8:6
For how can I endure to see the evil that shall come unto my people?
or how can I endure to see the destruction of my kindred?  8:7 Then
the king Ahasuerus said unto Esther the queen and to Mordecai the Jew,
Behold, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and him they have
hanged upon the gallows, because he laid his hand upon the Jews.

8:8 Write ye also for the Jews, as it liketh you, in the king's name,
and seal it with the king's ring: for the writing which is written in
the king's name, and sealed with the king's ring, may no man reverse.

8:9 Then were the king's scribes called at that time in the third
month, that is, the month Sivan, on the three and twentieth day
thereof; and it was written according to all that Mordecai commanded
unto the Jews, and to the lieutenants, and the deputies and rulers of
the provinces which are from India unto Ethiopia, an hundred twenty
and seven provinces, unto every province according to the writing
thereof, and unto every people after their language, and to the Jews
according to their writing, and according to their language.

8:10 And he wrote in the king Ahasuerus' name, and sealed it with the
king's ring, and sent letters by posts on horseback, and riders on
mules, camels, and young dromedaries: 8:11 Wherein the king granted
the Jews which were in every city to gather themselves together, and
to stand for their life, to destroy, to slay and to cause to perish,
all the power of the people and province that would assault them, both
little ones and women, and to take the spoil of them for a prey, 8:12
Upon one day in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus, namely, upon the
thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.

8:13 The copy of the writing for a commandment to be given in every
province was published unto all people, and that the Jews should be
ready against that day to avenge themselves on their enemies.

8:14 So the posts that rode upon mules and camels went out, being
hastened and pressed on by the king's commandment. And the decree was
given at Shushan the palace.

8:15 And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal
apparel of blue and white, and with a great crown of gold, and with a
garment of fine linen and purple: and the city of Shushan rejoiced and
was glad.

8:16 The Jews had light, and gladness, and joy, and honour.

8:17 And in every province, and in every city, whithersoever the
king's commandment and his decree came, the Jews had joy and gladness,
a feast and a good day. And many of the people of the land became
Jews; for the fear of the Jews fell upon them.

9:1 Now in the twelfth month, that is, the month Adar, on the
thirteenth day of the same, when the king's commandment and his decree
drew near to be put in execution, in the day that the enemies of the
Jews hoped to have power over them, (though it was turned to the
contrary, that the Jews had rule over them that hated them;) 9:2 The
Jews gathered themselves together in their cities throughout all the
provinces of the king Ahasuerus, to lay hand on such as sought their
hurt: and no man could withstand them; for the fear of them fell upon
all people.

9:3 And all the rulers of the provinces, and the lieutenants, and the
deputies, and officers of the king, helped the Jews; because the fear
of Mordecai fell upon them.

9:4 For Mordecai was great in the king's house, and his fame went out
throughout all the provinces: for this man Mordecai waxed greater and
greater.

9:5 Thus the Jews smote all their enemies with the stroke of the
sword, and slaughter, and destruction, and did what they would unto
those that hated them.

9:6 And in Shushan the palace the Jews slew and destroyed five hundred
men.

9:7 And Parshandatha, and Dalphon, and Aspatha, 9:8 And Poratha, and
Adalia, and Aridatha, 9:9 And Parmashta, and Arisai, and Aridai, and
Vajezatha, 9:10 The ten sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the enemy
of the Jews, slew they; but on the spoil laid they not their hand.

9:11 On that day the number of those that were slain in Shushan the
palace was brought before the king.

9:12 And the king said unto Esther the queen, The Jews have slain and
destroyed five hundred men in Shushan the palace, and the ten sons of
Haman; what have they done in the rest of the king's provinces? now
what is thy petition? and it shall be granted thee: or what is thy
request further? and it shall be done.

9:13 Then said Esther, If it please the king, let it be granted to the
Jews which are in Shushan to do to morrow also according unto this
day's decree, and let Haman's ten sons be hanged upon the gallows.

9:14 And the king commanded it so to be done: and the decree was given
at Shushan; and they hanged Haman's ten sons.

9:15 For the Jews that were in Shushan gathered themselves together on
the fourteenth day also of the month Adar, and slew three hundred men
at Shushan; but on the prey they laid not their hand.

9:16 But the other Jews that were in the king's provinces gathered
themselves together, and stood for their lives, and had rest from
their enemies, and slew of their foes seventy and five thousand, but
they laid not their hands on the prey, 9:17 On the thirteenth day of
the month Adar; and on the fourteenth day of the same rested they, and
made it a day of feasting and gladness.

9:18 But the Jews that were at Shushan assembled together on the
thirteenth day thereof, and on the fourteenth thereof; and on the
fifteenth day of the same they rested, and made it a day of feasting
and gladness.

9:19 Therefore the Jews of the villages, that dwelt in the unwalled
towns, made the fourteenth day of the month Adar a day of gladness and
feasting, and a good day, and of sending portions one to another.

9:20 And Mordecai wrote these things, and sent letters unto all the
Jews that were in all the provinces of the king Ahasuerus, both nigh
and far, 9:21 To stablish this among them, that they should keep the
fourteenth day of the month Adar, and the fifteenth day of the same,
yearly, 9:22 As the days wherein the Jews rested from their enemies,
and the month which was turned unto them from sorrow to joy, and from
mourning into a good day: that they should make them days of feasting
and joy, and of sending portions one to another, and gifts to the
poor.

9:23 And the Jews undertook to do as they had begun, and as Mordecai
had written unto them; 9:24 Because Haman the son of Hammedatha, the
Agagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had devised against the Jews to
destroy them, and had cast Pur, that is, the lot, to consume them, and
to destroy them; 9:25 But when Esther came before the king, he
commanded by letters that his wicked device, which he devised against
the Jews, should return upon his own head, and that he and his sons
should be hanged on the gallows.

9:26 Wherefore they called these days Purim after the name of Pur.

Therefore for all the words of this letter, and of that which they had
seen concerning this matter, and which had come unto them, 9:27 The
Jews ordained, and took upon them, and upon their seed, and upon all
such as joined themselves unto them, so as it should not fail, that
they would keep these two days according to their writing, and
according to their appointed time every year; 9:28 And that these days
should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, every
family, every province, and every city; and that these days of Purim
should not fail from among the Jews, nor the memorial of them perish
from their seed.

9:29 Then Esther the queen, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the
Jew, wrote with all authority, to confirm this second letter of Purim.

9:30 And he sent the letters unto all the Jews, to the hundred twenty
and seven provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, with words of peace
and truth, 9:31 To confirm these days of Purim in their times
appointed, according as Mordecai the Jew and Esther the queen had
enjoined them, and as they had decreed for themselves and for their
seed, the matters of the fastings and their cry.

9:32 And the decree of Esther confirmed these matters of Purim; and it
was written in the book.

10:1 And the king Ahasuerus laid a tribute upon the land, and upon the
isles of the sea.

10:2 And all the acts of his power and of his might, and the
declaration of the greatness of Mordecai, whereunto the king advanced
him, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings
of Media and Persia?  10:3 For Mordecai the Jew was next unto king
Ahasuerus, and great among the Jews, and accepted of the multitude of
his brethren, seeking the wealth of his people, and speaking peace to
all his seed.




The Book of Job


1:1 There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job; and that
man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God, and eschewed evil.

1:2 And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters.

1:3 His substance also was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand
camels, and five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she asses, and
a very great household; so that this man was the greatest of all the
men of the east.

1:4 And his sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day;
and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with
them.

1:5 And it was so, when the days of their feasting were gone about,
that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning,
and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all: for
Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, and cursed God in their
hearts. Thus did Job continually.

1:6 Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present
themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them.

1:7 And the LORD said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan
answered the LORD, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and
from walking up and down in it.

1:8 And the LORD said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job,
that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright
man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil?  1:9 Then Satan
answered the LORD, and said, Doth Job fear God for nought?  1:10 Hast
not thou made an hedge about him, and about his house, and about all
that he hath on every side? thou hast blessed the work of his hands,
and his substance is increased in the land.

1:11 But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he
will curse thee to thy face.

1:12 And the LORD said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy
power; only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth
from the presence of the LORD.

1:13 And there was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating
and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house: 1:14 And there came
a messenger unto Job, and said, The oxen were plowing, and the asses
feeding beside them: 1:15 And the Sabeans fell upon them, and took
them away; yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the
sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

1:16 While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The
fire of God is fallen from heaven, and hath burned up the sheep, and
the servants, and consumed them; and I only am escaped alone to tell
thee.

1:17 While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The
Chaldeans made out three bands, and fell upon the camels, and have
carried them away, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the
sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

1:18 While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, Thy
sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest
brother's house: 1:19 And, behold, there came a great wind from the
wilderness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon
the young men, and they are dead; and I only am escaped alone to tell
thee.

1:20 Then Job arose, and rent his mantle, and shaved his head, and
fell down upon the ground, and worshipped, 1:21 And said, Naked came I
out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither: the LORD
gave, and the LORD hath taken away; blessed be the name of the LORD.

1:22 In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly.

2:1 Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present
themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them to present
himself before the LORD.

2:2 And the LORD said unto Satan, From whence comest thou? And Satan
answered the LORD, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and
from walking up and down in it.

2:3 And the LORD said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job,
that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright
man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil? and still he holdeth
fast his integrity, although thou movedst me against him, to destroy
him without cause.

2:4 And Satan answered the LORD, and said, Skin for skin, yea, all
that a man hath will he give for his life.

2:5 But put forth thine hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh,
and he will curse thee to thy face.

2:6 And the LORD said unto Satan, Behold, he is in thine hand; but
save his life.

2:7 So went Satan forth from the presence of the LORD, and smote Job
with sore boils from the sole of his foot unto his crown.

2:8 And he took him a potsherd to scrape himself withal; and he sat
down among the ashes.

2:9 Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine
integrity?  curse God, and die.

2:10 But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women
speaketh. What? shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we
not receive evil? In all this did not Job sin with his lips.

2:11 Now when Job's three friends heard of all this evil that was come
upon him, they came every one from his own place; Eliphaz the
Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite: for they
had made an appointment together to come to mourn with him and to
comfort him.

2:12 And when they lifted up their eyes afar off, and knew him not,
they lifted up their voice, and wept; and they rent every one his
mantle, and sprinkled dust upon their heads toward heaven.

2:13 So they sat down with him upon the ground seven days and seven
nights, and none spake a word unto him: for they saw that his grief
was very great.

3:1 After this opened Job his mouth, and cursed his day.

3:2 And Job spake, and said, 3:3 Let the day perish wherein I was
born, and the night in which it was said, There is a man child
conceived.

3:4 Let that day be darkness; let not God regard it from above,
neither let the light shine upon it.

3:5 Let darkness and the shadow of death stain it; let a cloud dwell
upon it; let the blackness of the day terrify it.

3:6 As for that night, let darkness seize upon it; let it not be
joined unto the days of the year, let it not come into the number of
the months.

3:7 Lo, let that night be solitary, let no joyful voice come therein.

3:8 Let them curse it that curse the day, who are ready to raise up
their mourning.

3:9 Let the stars of the twilight thereof be dark; let it look for
light, but have none; neither let it see the dawning of the day: 3:10
Because it shut not up the doors of my mother's womb, nor hid sorrow
from mine eyes.

3:11 Why died I not from the womb? why did I not give up the ghost
when I came out of the belly?  3:12 Why did the knees prevent me? or
why the breasts that I should suck?  3:13 For now should I have lain
still and been quiet, I should have slept: then had I been at rest,
3:14 With kings and counsellors of the earth, which build desolate
places for themselves; 3:15 Or with princes that had gold, who filled
their houses with silver: 3:16 Or as an hidden untimely birth I had
not been; as infants which never saw light.

3:17 There the wicked cease from troubling; and there the weary be at
rest.

3:18 There the prisoners rest together; they hear not the voice of the
oppressor.

3:19 The small and great are there; and the servant is free from his
master.

3:20 Wherefore is light given to him that is in misery, and life unto
the bitter in soul; 3:21 Which long for death, but it cometh not; and
dig for it more than for hid treasures; 3:22 Which rejoice
exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the grave?  3:23 Why is
light given to a man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in?
3:24 For my sighing cometh before I eat, and my roarings are poured
out like the waters.

3:25 For the thing which I greatly feared is come upon me, and that
which I was afraid of is come unto me.

3:26 I was not in safety, neither had I rest, neither was I quiet; yet
trouble came.

4:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said, 4:2 If we assay to
commune with thee, wilt thou be grieved? but who can withhold himself
from speaking?  4:3 Behold, thou hast instructed many, and thou hast
strengthened the weak hands.

4:4 Thy words have upholden him that was falling, and thou hast
strengthened the feeble knees.

4:5 But now it is come upon thee, and thou faintest; it toucheth thee,
and thou art troubled.

4:6 Is not this thy fear, thy confidence, thy hope, and the
uprightness of thy ways?  4:7 Remember, I pray thee, who ever
perished, being innocent? or where were the righteous cut off?  4:8
Even as I have seen, they that plow iniquity, and sow wickedness, reap
the same.

4:9 By the blast of God they perish, and by the breath of his nostrils
are they consumed.

4:10 The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the fierce lion, and
the teeth of the young lions, are broken.

4:11 The old lion perisheth for lack of prey, and the stout lion's
whelps are scattered abroad.

4:12 Now a thing was secretly brought to me, and mine ear received a
little thereof.

4:13 In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep
falleth on men, 4:14 Fear came upon me, and trembling, which made all
my bones to shake.

4:15 Then a spirit passed before my face; the hair of my flesh stood
up: 4:16 It stood still, but I could not discern the form thereof: an
image was before mine eyes, there was silence, and I heard a voice,
saying, 4:17 Shall mortal man be more just than God? shall a man be
more pure than his maker?  4:18 Behold, he put no trust in his
servants; and his angels he charged with folly: 4:19 How much less in
them that dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust,
which are crushed before the moth?  4:20 They are destroyed from
morning to evening: they perish for ever without any regarding it.

4:21 Doth not their excellency which is in them go away? they die,
even without wisdom.

5:1 Call now, if there be any that will answer thee; and to which of
the saints wilt thou turn?  5:2 For wrath killeth the foolish man, and
envy slayeth the silly one.

5:3 I have seen the foolish taking root: but suddenly I cursed his
habitation.

5:4 His children are far from safety, and they are crushed in the
gate, neither is there any to deliver them.

5:5 Whose harvest the hungry eateth up, and taketh it even out of the
thorns, and the robber swalloweth up their substance.

5:6 Although affliction cometh not forth of the dust, neither doth
trouble spring out of the ground; 5:7 Yet man is born unto trouble, as
the sparks fly upward.

5:8 I would seek unto God, and unto God would I commit my cause: 5:9
Which doeth great things and unsearchable; marvellous things without
number: 5:10 Who giveth rain upon the earth, and sendeth waters upon
the fields: 5:11 To set up on high those that be low; that those which
mourn may be exalted to safety.

5:12 He disappointeth the devices of the crafty, so that their hands
cannot perform their enterprise.

5:13 He taketh the wise in their own craftiness: and the counsel of
the froward is carried headlong.

5:14 They meet with darkness in the day time, and grope in the noonday
as in the night.

5:15 But he saveth the poor from the sword, from their mouth, and from
the hand of the mighty.

5:16 So the poor hath hope, and iniquity stoppeth her mouth.

5:17 Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth: therefore despise
not thou the chastening of the Almighty: 5:18 For he maketh sore, and
bindeth up: he woundeth, and his hands make whole.

5:19 He shall deliver thee in six troubles: yea, in seven there shall
no evil touch thee.

5:20 In famine he shall redeem thee from death: and in war from the
power of the sword.

5:21 Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue: neither shalt
thou be afraid of destruction when it cometh.

5:22 At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh: neither shalt thou be
afraid of the beasts of the earth.

5:23 For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field: and the
beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee.

5:24 And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be in peace; and
thou shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not sin.

5:25 Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be great, and thine
offspring as the grass of the earth.

5:26 Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, like as a shock of
corn cometh in in his season.

5:27 Lo this, we have searched it, so it is; hear it, and know thou it
for thy good.

6:1 But Job answered and said, 6:2 Oh that my grief were throughly
weighed, and my calamity laid in the balances together!  6:3 For now
it would be heavier than the sand of the sea: therefore my words are
swallowed up.

6:4 For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, the poison whereof
drinketh up my spirit: the terrors of God do set themselves in array
against me.

6:5 Doth the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or loweth the ox over
his fodder?  6:6 Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt? or
is there any taste in the white of an egg?  6:7 The things that my
soul refused to touch are as my sorrowful meat.

6:8 Oh that I might have my request; and that God would grant me the
thing that I long for!  6:9 Even that it would please God to destroy
me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off!  6:10 Then
should I yet have comfort; yea, I would harden myself in sorrow: let
him not spare; for I have not concealed the words of the Holy One.

6:11 What is my strength, that I should hope? and what is mine end,
that I should prolong my life?  6:12 Is my strength the strength of
stones? or is my flesh of brass?  6:13 Is not my help in me? and is
wisdom driven quite from me?  6:14 To him that is afflicted pity
should be shewed from his friend; but he forsaketh the fear of the
Almighty.

6:15 My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook, and as the stream
of brooks they pass away; 6:16 Which are blackish by reason of the
ice, and wherein the snow is hid: 6:17 What time they wax warm, they
vanish: when it is hot, they are consumed out of their place.

6:18 The paths of their way are turned aside; they go to nothing, and
perish.

6:19 The troops of Tema looked, the companies of Sheba waited for
them.

6:20 They were confounded because they had hoped; they came thither,
and were ashamed.

6:21 For now ye are nothing; ye see my casting down, and are afraid.

6:22 Did I say, Bring unto me? or, Give a reward for me of your
substance?  6:23 Or, Deliver me from the enemy's hand? or, Redeem me
from the hand of the mighty?  6:24 Teach me, and I will hold my
tongue: and cause me to understand wherein I have erred.

6:25 How forcible are right words! but what doth your arguing reprove?
6:26 Do ye imagine to reprove words, and the speeches of one that is
desperate, which are as wind?  6:27 Yea, ye overwhelm the fatherless,
and ye dig a pit for your friend.

6:28 Now therefore be content, look upon me; for it is evident unto
you if I lie.

6:29 Return, I pray you, let it not be iniquity; yea, return again, my
righteousness is in it.

6:30 Is there iniquity in my tongue? cannot my taste discern perverse
things?  7:1 Is there not an appointed time to man upon earth? are not
his days also like the days of an hireling?  7:2 As a servant
earnestly desireth the shadow, and as an hireling looketh for the
reward of his work: 7:3 So am I made to possess months of vanity, and
wearisome nights are appointed to me.

7:4 When I lie down, I say, When shall I arise, and the night be gone?
and I am full of tossings to and fro unto the dawning of the day.

7:5 My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust; my skin is
broken, and become loathsome.

7:6 My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without
hope.

7:7 O remember that my life is wind: mine eye shall no more see good.

7:8 The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more: thine eyes
are upon me, and I am not.

7:9 As the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away: so he that goeth down
to the grave shall come up no more.

7:10 He shall return no more to his house, neither shall his place
know him any more.

7:11 Therefore I will not refrain my mouth; I will speak in the
anguish of my spirit; I will complain in the bitterness of my soul.

7:12 Am I a sea, or a whale, that thou settest a watch over me?  7:13
When I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall ease my
complaints; 7:14 Then thou scarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me
through visions: 7:15 So that my soul chooseth strangling, and death
rather than my life.

7:16 I loathe it; I would not live alway: let me alone; for my days
are vanity.

7:17 What is man, that thou shouldest magnify him? and that thou
shouldest set thine heart upon him?  7:18 And that thou shouldest
visit him every morning, and try him every moment?  7:19 How long wilt
thou not depart from me, nor let me alone till I swallow down my
spittle?  7:20 I have sinned; what shall I do unto thee, O thou
preserver of men?  why hast thou set me as a mark against thee, so
that I am a burden to myself?  7:21 And why dost thou not pardon my
transgression, and take away my iniquity? for now shall I sleep in the
dust; and thou shalt seek me in the morning, but I shall not be.

8:1 Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, 8:2 How long wilt thou
speak these things? and how long shall the words of thy mouth be like
a strong wind?  8:3 Doth God pervert judgment? or doth the Almighty
pervert justice?  8:4 If thy children have sinned against him, and he
have cast them away for their transgression; 8:5 If thou wouldest seek
unto God betimes, and make thy supplication to the Almighty; 8:6 If
thou wert pure and upright; surely now he would awake for thee, and
make the habitation of thy righteousness prosperous.

8:7 Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly
increase.

8:8 For enquire, I pray thee, of the former age, and prepare thyself
to the search of their fathers: 8:9 (For we are but of yesterday, and
know nothing, because our days upon earth are a shadow:) 8:10 Shall
not they teach thee, and tell thee, and utter words out of their
heart?  8:11 Can the rush grow up without mire? can the flag grow
without water?  8:12 Whilst it is yet in his greenness, and not cut
down, it withereth before any other herb.

8:13 So are the paths of all that forget God; and the hypocrite's hope
shall perish: 8:14 Whose hope shall be cut off, and whose trust shall
be a spider's web.

8:15 He shall lean upon his house, but it shall not stand: he shall
hold it fast, but it shall not endure.

8:16 He is green before the sun, and his branch shooteth forth in his
garden.

8:17 His roots are wrapped about the heap, and seeth the place of
stones.

8:18 If he destroy him from his place, then it shall deny him, saying,
I have not seen thee.

8:19 Behold, this is the joy of his way, and out of the earth shall
others grow.

8:20 Behold, God will not cast away a perfect man, neither will he
help the evil doers: 8:21 Till he fill thy mouth with laughing, and
thy lips with rejoicing.

8:22 They that hate thee shall be clothed with shame; and the dwelling
place of the wicked shall come to nought.

9:1 Then Job answered and said, 9:2 I know it is so of a truth: but
how should man be just with God?  9:3 If he will contend with him, he
cannot answer him one of a thousand.

9:4 He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath hardened
himself against him, and hath prospered?  9:5 Which removeth the
mountains, and they know not: which overturneth them in his anger.

9:6 Which shaketh the earth out of her place, and the pillars thereof
tremble.

9:7 Which commandeth the sun, and it riseth not; and sealeth up the
stars.

9:8 Which alone spreadeth out the heavens, and treadeth upon the waves
of the sea.

9:9 Which maketh Arcturus, Orion, and Pleiades, and the chambers of
the south.

9:10 Which doeth great things past finding out; yea, and wonders
without number.

9:11 Lo, he goeth by me, and I see him not: he passeth on also, but I
perceive him not.

9:12 Behold, he taketh away, who can hinder him? who will say unto
him, What doest thou?  9:13 If God will not withdraw his anger, the
proud helpers do stoop under him.

9:14 How much less shall I answer him, and choose out my words to
reason with him?  9:15 Whom, though I were righteous, yet would I not
answer, but I would make supplication to my judge.

9:16 If I had called, and he had answered me; yet would I not believe
that he had hearkened unto my voice.

9:17 For he breaketh me with a tempest, and multiplieth my wounds
without cause.

9:18 He will not suffer me to take my breath, but filleth me with
bitterness.

9:19 If I speak of strength, lo, he is strong: and if of judgment, who
shall set me a time to plead?  9:20 If I justify myself, mine own
mouth shall condemn me: if I say, I am perfect, it shall also prove me
perverse.

9:21 Though I were perfect, yet would I not know my soul: I would
despise my life.

9:22 This is one thing, therefore I said it, He destroyeth the perfect
and the wicked.

9:23 If the scourge slay suddenly, he will laugh at the trial of the
innocent.

9:24 The earth is given into the hand of the wicked: he covereth the
faces of the judges thereof; if not, where, and who is he?  9:25 Now
my days are swifter than a post: they flee away, they see no good.

9:26 They are passed away as the swift ships: as the eagle that
hasteth to the prey.

9:27 If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will leave off my
heaviness, and comfort myself: 9:28 I am afraid of all my sorrows, I
know that thou wilt not hold me innocent.

9:29 If I be wicked, why then labour I in vain?  9:30 If I wash myself
with snow water, and make my hands never so clean; 9:31 Yet shalt thou
plunge me in the ditch, and mine own clothes shall abhor me.

9:32 For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him, and we
should come together in judgment.

9:33 Neither is there any daysman betwixt us, that might lay his hand
upon us both.

9:34 Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his fear terrify
me: 9:35 Then would I speak, and not fear him; but it is not so with
me.

10:1 My soul is weary of my life; I will leave my complaint upon
myself; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.

10:2 I will say unto God, Do not condemn me; shew me wherefore thou
contendest with me.

10:3 Is it good unto thee that thou shouldest oppress, that thou
shouldest despise the work of thine hands, and shine upon the counsel
of the wicked?  10:4 Hast thou eyes of flesh? or seest thou as man
seeth?  10:5 Are thy days as the days of man? are thy years as man's
days, 10:6 That thou enquirest after mine iniquity, and searchest
after my sin?  10:7 Thou knowest that I am not wicked; and there is
none that can deliver out of thine hand.

10:8 Thine hands have made me and fashioned me together round about;
yet thou dost destroy me.

10:9 Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay; and
wilt thou bring me into dust again?  10:10 Hast thou not poured me out
as milk, and curdled me like cheese?  10:11 Thou hast clothed me with
skin and flesh, and hast fenced me with bones and sinews.

10:12 Thou hast granted me life and favour, and thy visitation hath
preserved my spirit.

10:13 And these things hast thou hid in thine heart: I know that this
is with thee.

10:14 If I sin, then thou markest me, and thou wilt not acquit me from
mine iniquity.

10:15 If I be wicked, woe unto me; and if I be righteous, yet will I
not lift up my head. I am full of confusion; therefore see thou mine
affliction; 10:16 For it increaseth. Thou huntest me as a fierce lion:
and again thou shewest thyself marvellous upon me.

10:17 Thou renewest thy witnesses against me, and increasest thine
indignation upon me; changes and war are against me.

10:18 Wherefore then hast thou brought me forth out of the womb? Oh
that I had given up the ghost, and no eye had seen me!  10:19 I should
have been as though I had not been; I should have been carried from
the womb to the grave.

10:20 Are not my days few? cease then, and let me alone, that I may
take comfort a little, 10:21 Before I go whence I shall not return,
even to the land of darkness and the shadow of death; 10:22 A land of
darkness, as darkness itself; and of the shadow of death, without any
order, and where the light is as darkness.

11:1 Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said, 11:2 Should not
the multitude of words be answered? and should a man full of talk be
justified?  11:3 Should thy lies make men hold their peace? and when
thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed?  11:4 For thou hast
said, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in thine eyes.

11:5 But oh that God would speak, and open his lips against thee; 11:6
And that he would shew thee the secrets of wisdom, that they are
double to that which is! Know therefore that God exacteth of thee less
than thine iniquity deserveth.

11:7 Canst thou by searching find out God? canst thou find out the
Almighty unto perfection?  11:8 It is as high as heaven; what canst
thou do? deeper than hell; what canst thou know?  11:9 The measure
thereof is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea.

11:10 If he cut off, and shut up, or gather together, then who can
hinder him?  11:11 For he knoweth vain men: he seeth wickedness also;
will he not then consider it?  11:12 For vain men would be wise,
though man be born like a wild ass's colt.

11:13 If thou prepare thine heart, and stretch out thine hands toward
him; 11:14 If iniquity be in thine hand, put it far away, and let not
wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles.

11:15 For then shalt thou lift up thy face without spot; yea, thou
shalt be stedfast, and shalt not fear: 11:16 Because thou shalt forget
thy misery, and remember it as waters that pass away: 11:17 And thine
age shall be clearer than the noonday: thou shalt shine forth, thou
shalt be as the morning.

11:18 And thou shalt be secure, because there is hope; yea, thou shalt
dig about thee, and thou shalt take thy rest in safety.

11:19 Also thou shalt lie down, and none shall make thee afraid; yea,
many shall make suit unto thee.

11:20 But the eyes of the wicked shall fail, and they shall not
escape, and their hope shall be as the giving up of the ghost.

12:1 And Job answered and said, 12:2 No doubt but ye are the people,
and wisdom shall die with you.

12:3 But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to
you: yea, who knoweth not such things as these?  12:4 I am as one
mocked of his neighbour, who calleth upon God, and he answereth him:
the just upright man is laughed to scorn.

12:5 He that is ready to slip with his feet is as a lamp despised in
the thought of him that is at ease.

12:6 The tabernacles of robbers prosper, and they that provoke God are
secure; into whose hand God bringeth abundantly.

12:7 But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee; and the fowls
of the air, and they shall tell thee: 12:8 Or speak to the earth, and
it shall teach thee: and the fishes of the sea shall declare unto
thee.

12:9 Who knoweth not in all these that the hand of the LORD hath
wrought this?  12:10 In whose hand is the soul of every living thing,
and the breath of all mankind.

12:11 Doth not the ear try words? and the mouth taste his meat?  12:12
With the ancient is wisdom; and in length of days understanding.

12:13 With him is wisdom and strength, he hath counsel and
understanding.

12:14 Behold, he breaketh down, and it cannot be built again: he
shutteth up a man, and there can be no opening.

12:15 Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and they dry up: also he
sendeth them out, and they overturn the earth.

12:16 With him is strength and wisdom: the deceived and the deceiver
are his.

12:17 He leadeth counsellors away spoiled, and maketh the judges
fools.

12:18 He looseth the bond of kings, and girdeth their loins with a
girdle.

12:19 He leadeth princes away spoiled, and overthroweth the mighty.

12:20 He removeth away the speech of the trusty, and taketh away the
understanding of the aged.

12:21 He poureth contempt upon princes, and weakeneth the strength of
the mighty.

12:22 He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth out to
light the shadow of death.

12:23 He increaseth the nations, and destroyeth them: he enlargeth the
nations, and straiteneth them again.

12:24 He taketh away the heart of the chief of the people of the
earth, and causeth them to wander in a wilderness where there is no
way.

12:25 They grope in the dark without light, and he maketh them to
stagger like a drunken man.

13:1 Lo, mine eye hath seen all this, mine ear hath heard and
understood it.

13:2 What ye know, the same do I know also: I am not inferior unto
you.

13:3 Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with
God.

13:4 But ye are forgers of lies, ye are all physicians of no value.

13:5 O that ye would altogether hold your peace! and it should be your
wisdom.

13:6 Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips.

13:7 Will ye speak wickedly for God? and talk deceitfully for him?
13:8 Will ye accept his person? will ye contend for God?  13:9 Is it
good that he should search you out? or as one man mocketh another, do
ye so mock him?  13:10 He will surely reprove you, if ye do secretly
accept persons.

13:11 Shall not his excellency make you afraid? and his dread fall
upon you?  13:12 Your remembrances are like unto ashes, your bodies to
bodies of clay.

13:13 Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak, and let come on
me what will.

13:14 Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in
mine hand?  13:15 Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him: but I
will maintain mine own ways before him.

13:16 He also shall be my salvation: for an hypocrite shall not come
before him.

13:17 Hear diligently my speech, and my declaration with your ears.

13:18 Behold now, I have ordered my cause; I know that I shall be
justified.

13:19 Who is he that will plead with me? for now, if I hold my tongue,
I shall give up the ghost.

13:20 Only do not two things unto me: then will I not hide myself from
thee.

13:21 Withdraw thine hand far from me: and let not thy dread make me
afraid.

13:22 Then call thou, and I will answer: or let me speak, and answer
thou me.

13:23 How many are mine iniquities and sins? make me to know my
transgression and my sin.

13:24 Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and holdest me for thine enemy?
13:25 Wilt thou break a leaf driven to and fro? and wilt thou pursue
the dry stubble?  13:26 For thou writest bitter things against me, and
makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth.

13:27 Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, and lookest narrowly
unto all my paths; thou settest a print upon the heels of my feet.

13:28 And he, as a rotten thing, consumeth, as a garment that is moth
eaten.

14:1 Man that is born of a woman is of few days and full of trouble.

14:2 He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as
a shadow, and continueth not.

14:3 And doth thou open thine eyes upon such an one, and bringest me
into judgment with thee?  14:4 Who can bring a clean thing out of an
unclean? not one.

14:5 Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with
thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass; 14:6 Turn
from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as an hireling,
his day.

14:7 For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will
sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease.

14:8 Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock
thereof die in the ground; 14:9 Yet through the scent of water it will
bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant.

14:10 But man dieth, and wasteth away: yea, man giveth up the ghost,
and where is he?  14:11 As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood
decayeth and drieth up: 14:12 So man lieth down, and riseth not: till
the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of
their sleep.

14:13 O that thou wouldest hide me in the grave, that thou wouldest
keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, that thou wouldest appoint me
a set time, and remember me!  14:14 If a man die, shall he live again?
all the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come.

14:15 Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee: thou wilt have a desire
to the work of thine hands.

14:16 For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my
sin?  14:17 My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up
mine iniquity.

14:18 And surely the mountains falling cometh to nought, and the rock
is removed out of his place.

14:19 The waters wear the stones: thou washest away the things which
grow out of the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of
man.

14:20 Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth: thou
changest his countenance, and sendest him away.

14:21 His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they are
brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them.

14:22 But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him
shall mourn.

15:1 Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said, 15:2 Should a wise
man utter vain knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind?  15:3
Should he reason with unprofitable talk? or with speeches wherewith he
can do no good?  15:4 Yea, thou castest off fear, and restrainest
prayer before God.

15:5 For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity, and thou choosest the
tongue of the crafty.

15:6 Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I: yea, thine own lips
testify against thee.

15:7 Art thou the first man that was born? or wast thou made before
the hills?  15:8 Hast thou heard the secret of God? and dost thou
restrain wisdom to thyself?  15:9 What knowest thou, that we know not?
what understandest thou, which is not in us?  15:10 With us are both
the grayheaded and very aged men, much elder than thy father.

15:11 Are the consolations of God small with thee? is there any secret
thing with thee?  15:12 Why doth thine heart carry thee away? and what
do thy eyes wink at, 15:13 That thou turnest thy spirit against God,
and lettest such words go out of thy mouth?  15:14 What is man, that
he should be clean? and he which is born of a woman, that he should be
righteous?  15:15 Behold, he putteth no trust in his saints; yea, the
heavens are not clean in his sight.

15:16 How much more abominable and filthy is man, which drinketh
iniquity like water?  15:17 I will shew thee, hear me; and that which
I have seen I will declare; 15:18 Which wise men have told from their
fathers, and have not hid it: 15:19 Unto whom alone the earth was
given, and no stranger passed among them.

15:20 The wicked man travaileth with pain all his days, and the number
of years is hidden to the oppressor.

15:21 A dreadful sound is in his ears: in prosperity the destroyer
shall come upon him.

15:22 He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness, and he is
waited for of the sword.

15:23 He wandereth abroad for bread, saying, Where is it? he knoweth
that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.

15:24 Trouble and anguish shall make him afraid; they shall prevail
against him, as a king ready to the battle.

15:25 For he stretcheth out his hand against God, and strengtheneth
himself against the Almighty.

15:26 He runneth upon him, even on his neck, upon the thick bosses of
his bucklers: 15:27 Because he covereth his face with his fatness, and
maketh collops of fat on his flanks.

15:28 And he dwelleth in desolate cities, and in houses which no man
inhabiteth, which are ready to become heaps.

15:29 He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue,
neither shall he prolong the perfection thereof upon the earth.

15:30 He shall not depart out of darkness; the flame shall dry up his
branches, and by the breath of his mouth shall he go away.

15:31 Let not him that is deceived trust in vanity: for vanity shall
be his recompence.

15:32 It shall be accomplished before his time, and his branch shall
not be green.

15:33 He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast
off his flower as the olive.

15:34 For the congregation of hypocrites shall be desolate, and fire
shall consume the tabernacles of bribery.

15:35 They conceive mischief, and bring forth vanity, and their belly
prepareth deceit.

16:1 Then Job answered and said, 16:2 I have heard many such things:
miserable comforters are ye all.

16:3 Shall vain words have an end? or what emboldeneth thee that thou
answerest?  16:4 I also could speak as ye do: if your soul were in my
soul's stead, I could heap up words against you, and shake mine head
at you.

16:5 But I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the moving of my
lips should asswage your grief.

16:6 Though I speak, my grief is not asswaged: and though I forbear,
what am I eased?  16:7 But now he hath made me weary: thou hast made
desolate all my company.

16:8 And thou hast filled me with wrinkles, which is a witness against
me: and my leanness rising up in me beareth witness to my face.

16:9 He teareth me in his wrath, who hateth me: he gnasheth upon me
with his teeth; mine enemy sharpeneth his eyes upon me.

16:10 They have gaped upon me with their mouth; they have smitten me
upon the cheek reproachfully; they have gathered themselves together
against me.

16:11 God hath delivered me to the ungodly, and turned me over into
the hands of the wicked.

16:12 I was at ease, but he hath broken me asunder: he hath also taken
me by my neck, and shaken me to pieces, and set me up for his mark.

16:13 His archers compass me round about, he cleaveth my reins
asunder, and doth not spare; he poureth out my gall upon the ground.

16:14 He breaketh me with breach upon breach, he runneth upon me like
a giant.

16:15 I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and defiled my horn in the
dust.

16:16 My face is foul with weeping, and on my eyelids is the shadow of
death; 16:17 Not for any injustice in mine hands: also my prayer is
pure.

16:18 O earth, cover not thou my blood, and let my cry have no place.

16:19 Also now, behold, my witness is in heaven, and my record is on
high.

16:20 My friends scorn me: but mine eye poureth out tears unto God.

16:21 O that one might plead for a man with God, as a man pleadeth for
his neighbour!  16:22 When a few years are come, then I shall go the
way whence I shall not return.

17:1 My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the graves are ready
for me.

17:2 Are there not mockers with me? and doth not mine eye continue in
their provocation?  17:3 Lay down now, put me in a surety with thee;
who is he that will strike hands with me?  17:4 For thou hast hid
their heart from understanding: therefore shalt thou not exalt them.

17:5 He that speaketh flattery to his friends, even the eyes of his
children shall fail.

17:6 He hath made me also a byword of the people; and aforetime I was
as a tabret.

17:7 Mine eye also is dim by reason of sorrow, and all my members are
as a shadow.

17:8 Upright men shall be astonied at this, and the innocent shall
stir up himself against the hypocrite.

17:9 The righteous also shall hold on his way, and he that hath clean
hands shall be stronger and stronger.

17:10 But as for you all, do ye return, and come now: for I cannot
find one wise man among you.

17:11 My days are past, my purposes are broken off, even the thoughts
of my heart.

17:12 They change the night into day: the light is short because of
darkness.

17:13 If I wait, the grave is mine house: I have made my bed in the
darkness.

17:14 I have said to corruption, Thou art my father: to the worm, Thou
art my mother, and my sister.

17:15 And where is now my hope? as for my hope, who shall see it?
17:16 They shall go down to the bars of the pit, when our rest
together is in the dust.

18:1 Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said, 18:2 How long will it
be ere ye make an end of words? mark, and afterwards we will speak.

18:3 Wherefore are we counted as beasts, and reputed vile in your
sight?  18:4 He teareth himself in his anger: shall the earth be
forsaken for thee? and shall the rock be removed out of his place?
18:5 Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out, and the spark of
his fire shall not shine.

18:6 The light shall be dark in his tabernacle, and his candle shall
be put out with him.

18:7 The steps of his strength shall be straitened, and his own
counsel shall cast him down.

18:8 For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walketh upon a
snare.

18:9 The gin shall take him by the heel, and the robber shall prevail
against him.

18:10 The snare is laid for him in the ground, and a trap for him in
the way.

18:11 Terrors shall make him afraid on every side, and shall drive him
to his feet.

18:12 His strength shall be hungerbitten, and destruction shall be
ready at his side.

18:13 It shall devour the strength of his skin: even the firstborn of
death shall devour his strength.

18:14 His confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle, and it
shall bring him to the king of terrors.

18:15 It shall dwell in his tabernacle, because it is none of his:
brimstone shall be scattered upon his habitation.

18:16 His roots shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his branch
be cut off.

18:17 His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall have
no name in the street.

18:18 He shall be driven from light into darkness, and chased out of
the world.

18:19 He shall neither have son nor nephew among his people, nor any
remaining in his dwellings.

18:20 They that come after him shall be astonied at his day, as they
that went before were affrighted.

18:21 Surely such are the dwellings of the wicked, and this is the
place of him that knoweth not God.

19:1 Then Job answered and said, 19:2 How long will ye vex my soul,
and break me in pieces with words?  19:3 These ten times have ye
reproached me: ye are not ashamed that ye make yourselves strange to
me.

19:4 And be it indeed that I have erred, mine error remaineth with
myself.

19:5 If indeed ye will magnify yourselves against me, and plead
against me my reproach: 19:6 Know now that God hath overthrown me, and
hath compassed me with his net.

19:7 Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard: I cry aloud, but
there is no judgment.

19:8 He hath fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he hath set
darkness in my paths.

19:9 He hath stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my
head.

19:10 He hath destroyed me on every side, and I am gone: and mine hope
hath he removed like a tree.

19:11 He hath also kindled his wrath against me, and he counteth me
unto him as one of his enemies.

19:12 His troops come together, and raise up their way against me, and
encamp round about my tabernacle.

19:13 He hath put my brethren far from me, and mine acquaintance are
verily estranged from me.

19:14 My kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten
me.

19:15 They that dwell in mine house, and my maids, count me for a
stranger: I am an alien in their sight.

19:16 I called my servant, and he gave me no answer; I intreated him
with my mouth.

19:17 My breath is strange to my wife, though I intreated for the
children's sake of mine own body.

19:18 Yea, young children despised me; I arose, and they spake against
me.

19:19 All my inward friends abhorred me: and they whom I loved are
turned against me.

19:20 My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh, and I am escaped
with the skin of my teeth.

19:21 Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends; for the
hand of God hath touched me.

19:22 Why do ye persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my
flesh?  19:23 Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were
printed in a book!  19:24 That they were graven with an iron pen and
lead in the rock for ever!  19:25 For I know that my redeemer liveth,
and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth: 19:26 And
though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I
see God: 19:27 Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall
behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me.

19:28 But ye should say, Why persecute we him, seeing the root of the
matter is found in me?  19:29 Be ye afraid of the sword: for wrath
bringeth the punishments of the sword, that ye may know there is a
judgment.

20:1 Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said, 20:2 Therefore do
my thoughts cause me to answer, and for this I make haste.

20:3 I have heard the check of my reproach, and the spirit of my
understanding causeth me to answer.

20:4 Knowest thou not this of old, since man was placed upon earth,
20:5 That the triumphing of the wicked is short, and the joy of the
hypocrite but for a moment?  20:6 Though his excellency mount up to
the heavens, and his head reach unto the clouds; 20:7 Yet he shall
perish for ever like his own dung: they which have seen him shall say,
Where is he?  20:8 He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be
found: yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night.

20:9 The eye also which saw him shall see him no more; neither shall
his place any more behold him.

20:10 His children shall seek to please the poor, and his hands shall
restore their goods.

20:11 His bones are full of the sin of his youth, which shall lie down
with him in the dust.

20:12 Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under
his tongue; 20:13 Though he spare it, and forsake it not; but keep it
still within his mouth: 20:14 Yet his meat in his bowels is turned, it
is the gall of asps within him.

20:15 He hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again:
God shall cast them out of his belly.

20:16 He shall suck the poison of asps: the viper's tongue shall slay
him.

20:17 He shall not see the rivers, the floods, the brooks of honey and
butter.

20:18 That which he laboured for shall he restore, and shall not
swallow it down: according to his substance shall the restitution be,
and he shall not rejoice therein.

20:19 Because he hath oppressed and hath forsaken the poor; because he
hath violently taken away an house which he builded not; 20:20 Surely
he shall not feel quietness in his belly, he shall not save of that
which he desired.

20:21 There shall none of his meat be left; therefore shall no man
look for his goods.

20:22 In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits: every
hand of the wicked shall come upon him.

20:23 When he is about to fill his belly, God shall cast the fury of
his wrath upon him, and shall rain it upon him while he is eating.

20:24 He shall flee from the iron weapon, and the bow of steel shall
strike him through.

20:25 It is drawn, and cometh out of the body; yea, the glittering
sword cometh out of his gall: terrors are upon him.

20:26 All darkness shall be hid in his secret places: a fire not blown
shall consume him; it shall go ill with him that is left in his
tabernacle.

20:27 The heaven shall reveal his iniquity; and the earth shall rise
up against him.

20:28 The increase of his house shall depart, and his goods shall flow
away in the day of his wrath.

20:29 This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and the heritage
appointed unto him by God.

21:1 But Job answered and said, 21:2 Hear diligently my speech, and
let this be your consolations.

21:3 Suffer me that I may speak; and after that I have spoken, mock
on.

21:4 As for me, is my complaint to man? and if it were so, why should
not my spirit be troubled?  21:5 Mark me, and be astonished, and lay
your hand upon your mouth.

21:6 Even when I remember I am afraid, and trembling taketh hold on my
flesh.

21:7 Wherefore do the wicked live, become old, yea, are mighty in
power?  21:8 Their seed is established in their sight with them, and
their offspring before their eyes.

21:9 Their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of God upon
them.

21:10 Their bull gendereth, and faileth not; their cow calveth, and
casteth not her calf.

21:11 They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their
children dance.

21:12 They take the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the
organ.

21:13 They spend their days in wealth, and in a moment go down to the
grave.

21:14 Therefore they say unto God, Depart from us; for we desire not
the knowledge of thy ways.

21:15 What is the Almighty, that we should serve him? and what profit
should we have, if we pray unto him?  21:16 Lo, their good is not in
their hand: the counsel of the wicked is far from me.

21:17 How oft is the candle of the wicked put out! and how oft cometh
their destruction upon them! God distributeth sorrows in his anger.

21:18 They are as stubble before the wind, and as chaff that the storm
carrieth away.

21:19 God layeth up his iniquity for his children: he rewardeth him,
and he shall know it.

21:20 His eyes shall see his destruction, and he shall drink of the
wrath of the Almighty.

21:21 For what pleasure hath he in his house after him, when the
number of his months is cut off in the midst?  21:22 Shall any teach
God knowledge? seeing he judgeth those that are high.

21:23 One dieth in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet.

21:24 His breasts are full of milk, and his bones are moistened with
marrow.

21:25 And another dieth in the bitterness of his soul, and never
eateth with pleasure.

21:26 They shall lie down alike in the dust, and the worms shall cover
them.

21:27 Behold, I know your thoughts, and the devices which ye
wrongfully imagine against me.

21:28 For ye say, Where is the house of the prince? and where are the
dwelling places of the wicked?  21:29 Have ye not asked them that go
by the way? and do ye not know their tokens, 21:30 That the wicked is
reserved to the day of destruction? they shall be brought forth to the
day of wrath.

21:31 Who shall declare his way to his face? and who shall repay him
what he hath done?  21:32 Yet shall he be brought to the grave, and
shall remain in the tomb.

21:33 The clods of the valley shall be sweet unto him, and every man
shall draw after him, as there are innumerable before him.

21:34 How then comfort ye me in vain, seeing in your answers there
remaineth falsehood?  22:1 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and
said, 22:2 Can a man be profitable unto God, as he that is wise may be
profitable unto himself?  22:3 Is it any pleasure to the Almighty,
that thou art righteous? or is it gain to him, that thou makest thy
ways perfect?  22:4 Will he reprove thee for fear of thee? will he
enter with thee into judgment?  22:5 Is not thy wickedness great? and
thine iniquities infinite?  22:6 For thou hast taken a pledge from thy
brother for nought, and stripped the naked of their clothing.

22:7 Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink, and thou hast
withholden bread from the hungry.

22:8 But as for the mighty man, he had the earth; and the honourable
man dwelt in it.

22:9 Thou hast sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless
have been broken.

22:10 Therefore snares are round about thee, and sudden fear troubleth
thee; 22:11 Or darkness, that thou canst not see; and abundance of
waters cover thee.

22:12 Is not God in the height of heaven? and behold the height of the
stars, how high they are!  22:13 And thou sayest, How doth God know?
can he judge through the dark cloud?  22:14 Thick clouds are a
covering to him, that he seeth not; and he walketh in the circuit of
heaven.

22:15 Hast thou marked the old way which wicked men have trodden?
22:16 Which were cut down out of time, whose foundation was overflown
with a flood: 22:17 Which said unto God, Depart from us: and what can
the Almighty do for them?  22:18 Yet he filled their houses with good
things: but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.

22:19 The righteous see it, and are glad: and the innocent laugh them
to scorn.

22:20 Whereas our substance is not cut down, but the remnant of them
the fire consumeth.

22:21 Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace: thereby good
shall come unto thee.

22:22 Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, and lay up his
words in thine heart.

22:23 If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up, thou
shalt put away iniquity far from thy tabernacles.

22:24 Then shalt thou lay up gold as dust, and the gold of Ophir as
the stones of the brooks.

22:25 Yea, the Almighty shall be thy defence, and thou shalt have
plenty of silver.

22:26 For then shalt thou have thy delight in the Almighty, and shalt
lift up thy face unto God.

22:27 Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he shall hear thee, and
thou shalt pay thy vows.

22:28 Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto
thee: and the light shall shine upon thy ways.

22:29 When men are cast down, then thou shalt say, There is lifting
up; and he shall save the humble person.

22:30 He shall deliver the island of the innocent: and it is delivered
by the pureness of thine hands.

23:1 Then Job answered and said, 23:2 Even to day is my complaint
bitter: my stroke is heavier than my groaning.

23:3 Oh that I knew where I might find him! that I might come even to
his seat!  23:4 I would order my cause before him, and fill my mouth
with arguments.

23:5 I would know the words which he would answer me, and understand
what he would say unto me.

23:6 Will he plead against me with his great power? No; but he would
put strength in me.

23:7 There the righteous might dispute with him; so should I be
delivered for ever from my judge.

23:8 Behold, I go forward, but he is not there; and backward, but I
cannot perceive him: 23:9 On the left hand, where he doth work, but I
cannot behold him: he hideth himself on the right hand, that I cannot
see him: 23:10 But he knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried
me, I shall come forth as gold.

23:11 My foot hath held his steps, his way have I kept, and not
declined.

23:12 Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips; I
have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food.

23:13 But he is in one mind, and who can turn him? and what his soul
desireth, even that he doeth.

23:14 For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me: and many
such things are with him.

23:15 Therefore am I troubled at his presence: when I consider, I am
afraid of him.

23:16 For God maketh my heart soft, and the Almighty troubleth me:
23:17 Because I was not cut off before the darkness, neither hath he
covered the darkness from my face.

24:1 Why, seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty, do they that
know him not see his days?  24:2 Some remove the landmarks; they
violently take away flocks, and feed thereof.

24:3 They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take the widow's
ox for a pledge.

24:4 They turn the needy out of the way: the poor of the earth hide
themselves together.

24:5 Behold, as wild asses in the desert, go they forth to their work;
rising betimes for a prey: the wilderness yieldeth food for them and
for their children.

24:6 They reap every one his corn in the field: and they gather the
vintage of the wicked.

24:7 They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that they have no
covering in the cold.

24:8 They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the
rock for want of a shelter.

24:9 They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge of
the poor.

24:10 They cause him to go naked without clothing, and they take away
the sheaf from the hungry; 24:11 Which make oil within their walls,
and tread their winepresses, and suffer thirst.

24:12 Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded
crieth out: yet God layeth not folly to them.

24:13 They are of those that rebel against the light; they know not
the ways thereof, nor abide in the paths thereof.

24:14 The murderer rising with the light killeth the poor and needy,
and in the night is as a thief.

24:15 The eye also of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying,
No eye shall see me: and disguiseth his face.

24:16 In the dark they dig through houses, which they had marked for
themselves in the daytime: they know not the light.

24:17 For the morning is to them even as the shadow of death: if one
know them, they are in the terrors of the shadow of death.

24:18 He is swift as the waters; their portion is cursed in the earth:
he beholdeth not the way of the vineyards.

24:19 Drought and heat consume the snow waters: so doth the grave
those which have sinned.

24:20 The womb shall forget him; the worm shall feed sweetly on him;
he shall be no more remembered; and wickedness shall be broken as a
tree.

24:21 He evil entreateth the barren that beareth not: and doeth not
good to the widow.

24:22 He draweth also the mighty with his power: he riseth up, and no
man is sure of life.

24:23 Though it be given him to be in safety, whereon he resteth; yet
his eyes are upon their ways.

24:24 They are exalted for a little while, but are gone and brought
low; they are taken out of the way as all other, and cut off as the
tops of the ears of corn.

24:25 And if it be not so now, who will make me a liar, and make my
speech nothing worth?  25:1 Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and
said, 25:2 Dominion and fear are with him, he maketh peace in his high
places.

25:3 Is there any number of his armies? and upon whom doth not his
light arise?  25:4 How then can man be justified with God? or how can
he be clean that is born of a woman?  25:5 Behold even to the moon,
and it shineth not; yea, the stars are not pure in his sight.

25:6 How much less man, that is a worm? and the son of man, which is a
worm?  26:1 But Job answered and said, 26:2 How hast thou helped him
that is without power? how savest thou the arm that hath no strength?
26:3 How hast thou counselled him that hath no wisdom? and how hast
thou plentifully declared the thing as it is?  26:4 To whom hast thou
uttered words? and whose spirit came from thee?  26:5 Dead things are
formed from under the waters, and the inhabitants thereof.

26:6 Hell is naked before him, and destruction hath no covering.

26:7 He stretcheth out the north over the empty place, and hangeth the
earth upon nothing.

26:8 He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds; and the cloud is
not rent under them.

26:9 He holdeth back the face of his throne, and spreadeth his cloud
upon it.

26:10 He hath compassed the waters with bounds, until the day and
night come to an end.

26:11 The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at his reproof.

26:12 He divideth the sea with his power, and by his understanding he
smiteth through the proud.

26:13 By his spirit he hath garnished the heavens; his hand hath
formed the crooked serpent.

26:14 Lo, these are parts of his ways: but how little a portion is
heard of him? but the thunder of his power who can understand?  27:1
Moreover Job continued his parable, and said, 27:2 As God liveth, who
hath taken away my judgment; and the Almighty, who hath vexed my soul;
27:3 All the while my breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my
nostrils; 27:4 My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter
deceit.

27:5 God forbid that I should justify you: till I die I will not
remove mine integrity from me.

27:6 My righteousness I hold fast, and will not let it go: my heart
shall not reproach me so long as I live.

27:7 Let mine enemy be as the wicked, and he that riseth up against me
as the unrighteous.

27:8 For what is the hope of the hypocrite, though he hath gained,
when God taketh away his soul?  27:9 Will God hear his cry when
trouble cometh upon him?  27:10 Will he delight himself in the
Almighty? will he always call upon God?  27:11 I will teach you by the
hand of God: that which is with the Almighty will I not conceal.

27:12 Behold, all ye yourselves have seen it; why then are ye thus
altogether vain?  27:13 This is the portion of a wicked man with God,
and the heritage of oppressors, which they shall receive of the
Almighty.

27:14 If his children be multiplied, it is for the sword: and his
offspring shall not be satisfied with bread.

27:15 Those that remain of him shall be buried in death: and his
widows shall not weep.

27:16 Though he heap up silver as the dust, and prepare raiment as the
clay; 27:17 He may prepare it, but the just shall put it on, and the
innocent shall divide the silver.

27:18 He buildeth his house as a moth, and as a booth that the keeper
maketh.

27:19 The rich man shall lie down, but he shall not be gathered: he
openeth his eyes, and he is not.

27:20 Terrors take hold on him as waters, a tempest stealeth him away
in the night.

27:21 The east wind carrieth him away, and he departeth: and as a
storm hurleth him out of his place.

27:22 For God shall cast upon him, and not spare: he would fain flee
out of his hand.

27:23 Men shall clap their hands at him, and shall hiss him out of his
place.

28:1 Surely there is a vein for the silver, and a place for gold where
they fine it.

28:2 Iron is taken out of the earth, and brass is molten out of the
stone.

28:3 He setteth an end to darkness, and searcheth out all perfection:
the stones of darkness, and the shadow of death.

28:4 The flood breaketh out from the inhabitant; even the waters
forgotten of the foot: they are dried up, they are gone away from men.

28:5 As for the earth, out of it cometh bread: and under it is turned
up as it were fire.

28:6 The stones of it are the place of sapphires: and it hath dust of
gold.

28:7 There is a path which no fowl knoweth, and which the vulture's
eye hath not seen: 28:8 The lion's whelps have not trodden it, nor the
fierce lion passed by it.

28:9 He putteth forth his hand upon the rock; he overturneth the
mountains by the roots.

28:10 He cutteth out rivers among the rocks; and his eye seeth every
precious thing.

28:11 He bindeth the floods from overflowing; and the thing that is
hid bringeth he forth to light.

28:12 But where shall wisdom be found? and where is the place of
understanding?  28:13 Man knoweth not the price thereof; neither is it
found in the land of the living.

28:14 The depth saith, It is not in me: and the sea saith, It is not
with me.

28:15 It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed
for the price thereof.

28:16 It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious
onyx, or the sapphire.

28:17 The gold and the crystal cannot equal it: and the exchange of it
shall not be for jewels of fine gold.

28:18 No mention shall be made of coral, or of pearls: for the price
of wisdom is above rubies.

28:19 The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, neither shall it be
valued with pure gold.

28:20 Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of
understanding?  28:21 Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living,
and kept close from the fowls of the air.

28:22 Destruction and death say, We have heard the fame thereof with
our ears.

28:23 God understandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth the place
thereof.

28:24 For he looketh to the ends of the earth, and seeth under the
whole heaven; 28:25 To make the weight for the winds; and he weigheth
the waters by measure.

28:26 When he made a decree for the rain, and a way for the lightning
of the thunder: 28:27 Then did he see it, and declare it; he prepared
it, yea, and searched it out.

28:28 And unto man he said, Behold, the fear of the LORD, that is
wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding.

29:1 Moreover Job continued his parable, and said, 29:2 Oh that I were
as in months past, as in the days when God preserved me; 29:3 When his
candle shined upon my head, and when by his light I walked through
darkness; 29:4 As I was in the days of my youth, when the secret of
God was upon my tabernacle; 29:5 When the Almighty was yet with me,
when my children were about me; 29:6 When I washed my steps with
butter, and the rock poured me out rivers of oil; 29:7 When I went out
to the gate through the city, when I prepared my seat in the street!
29:8 The young men saw me, and hid themselves: and the aged arose, and
stood up.

29:9 The princes refrained talking, and laid their hand on their
mouth.

29:10 The nobles held their peace, and their tongue cleaved to the
roof of their mouth.

29:11 When the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw
me, it gave witness to me: 29:12 Because I delivered the poor that
cried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to help him.

29:13 The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me: and I
caused the widow's heart to sing for joy.

29:14 I put on righteousness, and it clothed me: my judgment was as a
robe and a diadem.

29:15 I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame.

29:16 I was a father to the poor: and the cause which I knew not I
searched out.

29:17 And I brake the jaws of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of
his teeth.

29:18 Then I said, I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply my
days as the sand.

29:19 My root was spread out by the waters, and the dew lay all night
upon my branch.

29:20 My glory was fresh in me, and my bow was renewed in my hand.

29:21 Unto me men gave ear, and waited, and kept silence at my
counsel.

29:22 After my words they spake not again; and my speech dropped upon
them.

29:23 And they waited for me as for the rain; and they opened their
mouth wide as for the latter rain.

29:24 If I laughed on them, they believed it not; and the light of my
countenance they cast not down.

29:25 I chose out their way, and sat chief, and dwelt as a king in the
army, as one that comforteth the mourners.

30:1 But now they that are younger than I have me in derision, whose
fathers I would have disdained to have set with the dogs of my flock.

30:2 Yea, whereto might the strength of their hands profit me, in whom
old age was perished?  30:3 For want and famine they were solitary;
fleeing into the wilderness in former time desolate and waste.

30:4 Who cut up mallows by the bushes, and juniper roots for their
meat.

30:5 They were driven forth from among men, (they cried after them as
after a thief;) 30:6 To dwell in the cliffs of the valleys, in caves
of the earth, and in the rocks.

30:7 Among the bushes they brayed; under the nettles they were
gathered together.

30:8 They were children of fools, yea, children of base men: they were
viler than the earth.

30:9 And now am I their song, yea, I am their byword.

30:10 They abhor me, they flee far from me, and spare not to spit in
my face.

30:11 Because he hath loosed my cord, and afflicted me, they have also
let loose the bridle before me.

30:12 Upon my right hand rise the youth; they push away my feet, and
they raise up against me the ways of their destruction.

30:13 They mar my path, they set forward my calamity, they have no
helper.

30:14 They came upon me as a wide breaking in of waters: in the
desolation they rolled themselves upon me.

30:15 Terrors are turned upon me: they pursue my soul as the wind: and
my welfare passeth away as a cloud.

30:16 And now my soul is poured out upon me; the days of affliction
have taken hold upon me.

30:17 My bones are pierced in me in the night season: and my sinews
take no rest.

30:18 By the great force of my disease is my garment changed: it
bindeth me about as the collar of my coat.

30:19 He hath cast me into the mire, and I am become like dust and
ashes.

30:20 I cry unto thee, and thou dost not hear me: I stand up, and thou
regardest me not.

30:21 Thou art become cruel to me: with thy strong hand thou opposest
thyself against me.

30:22 Thou liftest me up to the wind; thou causest me to ride upon it,
and dissolvest my substance.

30:23 For I know that thou wilt bring me to death, and to the house
appointed for all living.

30:24 Howbeit he will not stretch out his hand to the grave, though
they cry in his destruction.

30:25 Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? was not my soul
grieved for the poor?  30:26 When I looked for good, then evil came
unto me: and when I waited for light, there came darkness.

30:27 My bowels boiled, and rested not: the days of affliction
prevented me.

30:28 I went mourning without the sun: I stood up, and I cried in the
congregation.

30:29 I am a brother to dragons, and a companion to owls.

30:30 My skin is black upon me, and my bones are burned with heat.

30:31 My harp also is turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice
of them that weep.

31:1 I made a covenant with mine eyes; why then should I think upon a
maid?  31:2 For what portion of God is there from above? and what
inheritance of the Almighty from on high?  31:3 Is not destruction to
the wicked? and a strange punishment to the workers of iniquity?  31:4
Doth not he see my ways, and count all my steps?  31:5 If I have
walked with vanity, or if my foot hath hasted to deceit; 31:6 Let me
be weighed in an even balance that God may know mine integrity.

31:7 If my step hath turned out of the way, and mine heart walked
after mine eyes, and if any blot hath cleaved to mine hands; 31:8 Then
let me sow, and let another eat; yea, let my offspring be rooted out.

31:9 If mine heart have been deceived by a woman, or if I have laid
wait at my neighbour's door; 31:10 Then let my wife grind unto
another, and let others bow down upon her.

31:11 For this is an heinous crime; yea, it is an iniquity to be
punished by the judges.

31:12 For it is a fire that consumeth to destruction, and would root
out all mine increase.

31:13 If I did despise the cause of my manservant or of my
maidservant, when they contended with me; 31:14 What then shall I do
when God riseth up? and when he visiteth, what shall I answer him?
31:15 Did not he that made me in the womb make him? and did not one
fashion us in the womb?  31:16 If I have withheld the poor from their
desire, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail; 31:17 Or have
eaten my morsel myself alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten
thereof; 31:18 (For from my youth he was brought up with me, as with a
father, and I have guided her from my mother's womb;) 31:19 If I have
seen any perish for want of clothing, or any poor without covering;
31:20 If his loins have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with
the fleece of my sheep; 31:21 If I have lifted up my hand against the
fatherless, when I saw my help in the gate: 31:22 Then let mine arm
fall from my shoulder blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone.

31:23 For destruction from God was a terror to me, and by reason of
his highness I could not endure.

31:24 If I have made gold my hope, or have said to the fine gold, Thou
art my confidence; 31:25 If I rejoice because my wealth was great, and
because mine hand had gotten much; 31:26 If I beheld the sun when it
shined, or the moon walking in brightness; 31:27 And my heart hath
been secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my hand: 31:28 This
also were an iniquity to be punished by the judge: for I should have
denied the God that is above.

31:29 If I rejoice at the destruction of him that hated me, or lifted
up myself when evil found him: 31:30 Neither have I suffered my mouth
to sin by wishing a curse to his soul.

31:31 If the men of my tabernacle said not, Oh that we had of his
flesh!  we cannot be satisfied.

31:32 The stranger did not lodge in the street: but I opened my doors
to the traveller.

31:33 If I covered my transgressions as Adam, by hiding mine iniquity
in my bosom: 31:34 Did I fear a great multitude, or did the contempt
of families terrify me, that I kept silence, and went not out of the
door?  31:35 Oh that one would hear me! behold, my desire is, that the
Almighty would answer me, and that mine adversary had written a book.

31:36 Surely I would take it upon my shoulder, and bind it as a crown
to me.

31:37 I would declare unto him the number of my steps; as a prince
would I go near unto him.

31:38 If my land cry against me, or that the furrows likewise thereof
complain; 31:39 If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, or
have caused the owners thereof to lose their life: 31:40 Let thistles
grow instead of wheat, and cockle instead of barley.

The words of Job are ended.

32:1 So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous
in his own eyes.

32:2 Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the
Buzite, of the kindred of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled,
because he justified himself rather than God.

32:3 Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because
they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job.

32:4 Now Elihu had waited till Job had spoken, because they were elder
than he.

32:5 When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these
three men, then his wrath was kindled.

32:6 And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I am
young, and ye are very old; wherefore I was afraid, and durst not shew
you mine opinion.

32:7 I said, Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach
wisdom.

32:8 But there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty
giveth them understanding.

32:9 Great men are not always wise: neither do the aged understand
judgment.

32:10 Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will shew mine opinion.

32:11 Behold, I waited for your words; I gave ear to your reasons,
whilst ye searched out what to say.

32:12 Yea, I attended unto you, and, behold, there was none of you
that convinced Job, or that answered his words: 32:13 Lest ye should
say, We have found out wisdom: God thrusteth him down, not man.

32:14 Now he hath not directed his words against me: neither will I
answer him with your speeches.

32:15 They were amazed, they answered no more: they left off speaking.

32:16 When I had waited, (for they spake not, but stood still, and
answered no more;) 32:17 I said, I will answer also my part, I also
will shew mine opinion.

32:18 For I am full of matter, the spirit within me constraineth me.

32:19 Behold, my belly is as wine which hath no vent; it is ready to
burst like new bottles.

32:20 I will speak, that I may be refreshed: I will open my lips and
answer.

32:21 Let me not, I pray you, accept any man's person, neither let me
give flattering titles unto man.

32:22 For I know not to give flattering titles; in so doing my maker
would soon take me away.

33:1 Wherefore, Job, I pray thee, hear my speeches, and hearken to all
my words.

33:2 Behold, now I have opened my mouth, my tongue hath spoken in my
mouth.

33:3 My words shall be of the uprightness of my heart: and my lips
shall utter knowledge clearly.

33:4 The spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty
hath given me life.

33:5 If thou canst answer me, set thy words in order before me, stand
up.

33:6 Behold, I am according to thy wish in God's stead: I also am
formed out of the clay.

33:7 Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, neither shall my
hand be heavy upon thee.

33:8 Surely thou hast spoken in mine hearing, and I have heard the
voice of thy words, saying, 33:9 I am clean without transgression, I
am innocent; neither is there iniquity in me.

33:10 Behold, he findeth occasions against me, he counteth me for his
enemy, 33:11 He putteth my feet in the stocks, he marketh all my
paths.

33:12 Behold, in this thou art not just: I will answer thee, that God
is greater than man.

33:13 Why dost thou strive against him? for he giveth not account of
any of his matters.

33:14 For God speaketh once, yea twice, yet man perceiveth it not.

33:15 In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth
upon men, in slumberings upon the bed; 33:16 Then he openeth the ears
of men, and sealeth their instruction, 33:17 That he may withdraw man
from his purpose, and hide pride from man.

33:18 He keepeth back his soul from the pit, and his life from
perishing by the sword.

33:19 He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and the multitude
of his bones with strong pain: 33:20 So that his life abhorreth bread,
and his soul dainty meat.

33:21 His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot be seen; and his
bones that were not seen stick out.

33:22 Yea, his soul draweth near unto the grave, and his life to the
destroyers.

33:23 If there be a messenger with him, an interpreter, one among a
thousand, to shew unto man his uprightness: 33:24 Then he is gracious
unto him, and saith, Deliver him from going down to the pit: I have
found a ransom.

33:25 His flesh shall be fresher than a child's: he shall return to
the days of his youth: 33:26 He shall pray unto God, and he will be
favourable unto him: and he shall see his face with joy: for he will
render unto man his righteousness.

33:27 He looketh upon men, and if any say, I have sinned, and
perverted that which was right, and it profited me not; 33:28 He will
deliver his soul from going into the pit, and his life shall see the
light.

33:29 Lo, all these things worketh God oftentimes with man, 33:30 To
bring back his soul from the pit, to be enlightened with the light of
the living.

33:31 Mark well, O Job, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I will
speak.

33:32 If thou hast anything to say, answer me: speak, for I desire to
justify thee.

33:33 If not, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I shall teach thee
wisdom.

34:1 Furthermore Elihu answered and said, 34:2 Hear my words, O ye
wise men; and give ear unto me, ye that have knowledge.

34:3 For the ear trieth words, as the mouth tasteth meat.

34:4 Let us choose to us judgment: let us know among ourselves what is
good.

34:5 For Job hath said, I am righteous: and God hath taken away my
judgment.

34:6 Should I lie against my right? my wound is incurable without
transgression.

34:7 What man is like Job, who drinketh up scorning like water?  34:8
Which goeth in company with the workers of iniquity, and walketh with
wicked men.

34:9 For he hath said, It profiteth a man nothing that he should
delight himself with God.

34:10 Therefore hearken unto me ye men of understanding: far be it
from God, that he should do wickedness; and from the Almighty, that he
should commit iniquity.

34:11 For the work of a man shall he render unto him, and cause every
man to find according to his ways.

34:12 Yea, surely God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almighty
pervert judgment.

34:13 Who hath given him a charge over the earth? or who hath disposed
the whole world?  34:14 If he set his heart upon man, if he gather
unto himself his spirit and his breath; 34:15 All flesh shall perish
together, and man shall turn again unto dust.

34:16 If now thou hast understanding, hear this: hearken to the voice
of my words.

34:17 Shall even he that hateth right govern? and wilt thou condemn
him that is most just?  34:18 Is it fit to say to a king, Thou art
wicked? and to princes, Ye are ungodly?  34:19 How much less to him
that accepteth not the persons of princes, nor regardeth the rich more
than the poor? for they all are the work of his hands.

34:20 In a moment shall they die, and the people shall be troubled at
midnight, and pass away: and the mighty shall be taken away without
hand.

34:21 For his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his
goings.

34:22 There is no darkness, nor shadow of death, where the workers of
iniquity may hide themselves.

34:23 For he will not lay upon man more than right; that he should
enter into judgment with God.

34:24 He shall break in pieces mighty men without number, and set
others in their stead.

34:25 Therefore he knoweth their works, and he overturneth them in the
night, so that they are destroyed.

34:26 He striketh them as wicked men in the open sight of others;
34:27 Because they turned back from him, and would not consider any of
his ways: 34:28 So that they cause the cry of the poor to come unto
him, and he heareth the cry of the afflicted.

34:29 When he giveth quietness, who then can make trouble? and when he
hideth his face, who then can behold him? whether it be done against a
nation, or against a man only: 34:30 That the hypocrite reign not,
lest the people be ensnared.

34:31 Surely it is meet to be said unto God, I have borne
chastisement, I will not offend any more: 34:32 That which I see not
teach thou me: if I have done iniquity, I will do no more.

34:33 Should it be according to thy mind? he will recompense it,
whether thou refuse, or whether thou choose; and not I: therefore
speak what thou knowest.

34:34 Let men of understanding tell me, and let a wise man hearken
unto me.

34:35 Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words were without
wisdom.

34:36 My desire is that Job may be tried unto the end because of his
answers for wicked men.

34:37 For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth his hands
among us, and multiplieth his words against God.

35:1 Elihu spake moreover, and said, 35:2 Thinkest thou this to be
right, that thou saidst, My righteousness is more than God's?  35:3
For thou saidst, What advantage will it be unto thee? and, What profit
shall I have, if I be cleansed from my sin?  35:4 I will answer thee,
and thy companions with thee.

35:5 Look unto the heavens, and see; and behold the clouds which are
higher than thou.

35:6 If thou sinnest, what doest thou against him? or if thy
transgressions be multiplied, what doest thou unto him?  35:7 If thou
be righteous, what givest thou him? or what receiveth he of thine
hand?  35:8 Thy wickedness may hurt a man as thou art; and thy
righteousness may profit the son of man.

35:9 By reason of the multitude of oppressions they make the oppressed
to cry: they cry out by reason of the arm of the mighty.

35:10 But none saith, Where is God my maker, who giveth songs in the
night; 35:11 Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth, and
maketh us wiser than the fowls of heaven?  35:12 There they cry, but
none giveth answer, because of the pride of evil men.

35:13 Surely God will not hear vanity, neither will the Almighty
regard it.

35:14 Although thou sayest thou shalt not see him, yet judgment is
before him; therefore trust thou in him.

35:15 But now, because it is not so, he hath visited in his anger; yet
he knoweth it not in great extremity: 35:16 Therefore doth Job open
his mouth in vain; he multiplieth words without knowledge.

36:1 Elihu also proceeded, and said, 36:2 Suffer me a little, and I
will shew thee that I have yet to speak on God's behalf.

36:3 I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe
righteousness to my Maker.

36:4 For truly my words shall not be false: he that is perfect in
knowledge is with thee.

36:5 Behold, God is mighty, and despiseth not any: he is mighty in
strength and wisdom.

36:6 He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth right to the
poor.

36:7 He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous: but with kings
are they on the throne; yea, he doth establish them for ever, and they
are exalted.

36:8 And if they be bound in fetters, and be holden in cords of
affliction; 36:9 Then he sheweth them their work, and their
transgressions that they have exceeded.

36:10 He openeth also their ear to discipline, and commandeth that
they return from iniquity.

36:11 If they obey and serve him, they shall spend their days in
prosperity, and their years in pleasures.

36:12 But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword, and they
shall die without knowledge.

36:13 But the hypocrites in heart heap up wrath: they cry not when he
bindeth them.

36:14 They die in youth, and their life is among the unclean.

36:15 He delivereth the poor in his affliction, and openeth their ears
in oppression.

36:16 Even so would he have removed thee out of the strait into a
broad place, where there is no straitness; and that which should be
set on thy table should be full of fatness.

36:17 But thou hast fulfilled the judgment of the wicked: judgment and
justice take hold on thee.

36:18 Because there is wrath, beware lest he take thee away with his
stroke: then a great ransom cannot deliver thee.

36:19 Will he esteem thy riches? no, not gold, nor all the forces of
strength.

36:20 Desire not the night, when people are cut off in their place.

36:21 Take heed, regard not iniquity: for this hast thou chosen rather
than affliction.

36:22 Behold, God exalteth by his power: who teacheth like him?  36:23
Who hath enjoined him his way? or who can say, Thou hast wrought
iniquity?  36:24 Remember that thou magnify his work, which men
behold.

36:25 Every man may see it; man may behold it afar off.

36:26 Behold, God is great, and we know him not, neither can the
number of his years be searched out.

36:27 For he maketh small the drops of water: they pour down rain
according to the vapour thereof: 36:28 Which the clouds do drop and
distil upon man abundantly.

36:29 Also can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, or the
noise of his tabernacle?  36:30 Behold, he spreadeth his light upon
it, and covereth the bottom of the sea.

36:31 For by them judgeth he the people; he giveth meat in abundance.

36:32 With clouds he covereth the light; and commandeth it not to
shine by the cloud that cometh betwixt.

36:33 The noise thereof sheweth concerning it, the cattle also
concerning the vapour.

37:1 At this also my heart trembleth, and is moved out of his place.

37:2 Hear attentively the noise of his voice, and the sound that goeth
out of his mouth.

37:3 He directeth it under the whole heaven, and his lightning unto
the ends of the earth.

37:4 After it a voice roareth: he thundereth with the voice of his
excellency; and he will not stay them when his voice is heard.

37:5 God thundereth marvellously with his voice; great things doeth
he, which we cannot comprehend.

37:6 For he saith to the snow, Be thou on the earth; likewise to the
small rain, and to the great rain of his strength.

37:7 He sealeth up the hand of every man; that all men may know his
work.

37:8 Then the beasts go into dens, and remain in their places.

37:9 Out of the south cometh the whirlwind: and cold out of the north.

37:10 By the breath of God frost is given: and the breadth of the
waters is straitened.

37:11 Also by watering he wearieth the thick cloud: he scattereth his
bright cloud: 37:12 And it is turned round about by his counsels: that
they may do whatsoever he commandeth them upon the face of the world
in the earth.

37:13 He causeth it to come, whether for correction, or for his land,
or for mercy.

37:14 Hearken unto this, O Job: stand still, and consider the wondrous
works of God.

37:15 Dost thou know when God disposed them, and caused the light of
his cloud to shine?  37:16 Dost thou know the balancings of the
clouds, the wondrous works of him which is perfect in knowledge?
37:17 How thy garments are warm, when he quieteth the earth by the
south wind?  37:18 Hast thou with him spread out the sky, which is
strong, and as a molten looking glass?  37:19 Teach us what we shall
say unto him; for we cannot order our speech by reason of darkness.

37:20 Shall it be told him that I speak? if a man speak, surely he
shall be swallowed up.

37:21 And now men see not the bright light which is in the clouds: but
the wind passeth, and cleanseth them.

37:22 Fair weather cometh out of the north: with God is terrible
majesty.

37:23 Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out: he is excellent
in power, and in judgment, and in plenty of justice: he will not
afflict.

37:24 Men do therefore fear him: he respecteth not any that are wise
of heart.

38:1 Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said, 38:2
Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge?  38:3
Gird up now thy loins like a man; for I will demand of thee, and
answer thou me.

38:4 Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth?
declare, if thou hast understanding.

38:5 Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who hath
stretched the line upon it?  38:6 Whereupon are the foundations
thereof fastened? or who laid the corner stone thereof; 38:7 When the
morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?
38:8 Or who shut up the sea with doors, when it brake forth, as if it
had issued out of the womb?  38:9 When I made the cloud the garment
thereof, and thick darkness a swaddlingband for it, 38:10 And brake up
for it my decreed place, and set bars and doors, 38:11 And said,
Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further: and here shall thy proud
waves be stayed?  38:12 Hast thou commanded the morning since thy
days; and caused the dayspring to know his place; 38:13 That it might
take hold of the ends of the earth, that the wicked might be shaken
out of it?  38:14 It is turned as clay to the seal; and they stand as
a garment.

38:15 And from the wicked their light is withholden, and the high arm
shall be broken.

38:16 Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea? or hast thou
walked in the search of the depth?  38:17 Have the gates of death been
opened unto thee? or hast thou seen the doors of the shadow of death?
38:18 Hast thou perceived the breadth of the earth? declare if thou
knowest it all.

38:19 Where is the way where light dwelleth? and as for darkness,
where is the place thereof, 38:20 That thou shouldest take it to the
bound thereof, and that thou shouldest know the paths to the house
thereof?  38:21 Knowest thou it, because thou wast then born? or
because the number of thy days is great?  38:22 Hast thou entered into
the treasures of the snow? or hast thou seen the treasures of the
hail, 38:23 Which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against
the day of battle and war?  38:24 By what way is the light parted,
which scattereth the east wind upon the earth?  38:25 Who hath divided
a watercourse for the overflowing of waters, or a way for the
lightning of thunder; 38:26 To cause it to rain on the earth, where no
man is; on the wilderness, wherein there is no man; 38:27 To satisfy
the desolate and waste ground; and to cause the bud of the tender herb
to spring forth?  38:28 Hath the rain a father? or who hath begotten
the drops of dew?  38:29 Out of whose womb came the ice? and the hoary
frost of heaven, who hath gendered it?  38:30 The waters are hid as
with a stone, and the face of the deep is frozen.

38:31 Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or loose the
bands of Orion?  38:32 Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season?
or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons?  38:33 Knowest thou the
ordinances of heaven? canst thou set the dominion thereof in the
earth?  38:34 Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, that
abundance of waters may cover thee?  38:35 Canst thou send lightnings,
that they may go and say unto thee, Here we are?  38:36 Who hath put
wisdom in the inward parts? or who hath given understanding to the
heart?  38:37 Who can number the clouds in wisdom? or who can stay the
bottles of heaven, 38:38 When the dust groweth into hardness, and the
clods cleave fast together?  38:39 Wilt thou hunt the prey for the
lion? or fill the appetite of the young lions, 38:40 When they couch
in their dens, and abide in the covert to lie in wait?  38:41 Who
provideth for the raven his food? when his young ones cry unto God,
they wander for lack of meat.

39:1 Knowest thou the time when the wild goats of the rock bring
forth? or canst thou mark when the hinds do calve?  39:2 Canst thou
number the months that they fulfil? or knowest thou the time when they
bring forth?  39:3 They bow themselves, they bring forth their young
ones, they cast out their sorrows.

39:4 Their young ones are in good liking, they grow up with corn; they
go forth, and return not unto them.

39:5 Who hath sent out the wild ass free? or who hath loosed the bands
of the wild ass?  39:6 Whose house I have made the wilderness, and the
barren land his dwellings.

39:7 He scorneth the multitude of the city, neither regardeth he the
crying of the driver.

39:8 The range of the mountains is his pasture, and he searcheth after
every green thing.

39:9 Will the unicorn be willing to serve thee, or abide by thy crib?
39:10 Canst thou bind the unicorn with his band in the furrow? or will
he harrow the valleys after thee?  39:11 Wilt thou trust him, because
his strength is great? or wilt thou leave thy labour to him?  39:12
Wilt thou believe him, that he will bring home thy seed, and gather it
into thy barn?  39:13 Gavest thou the goodly wings unto the peacocks?
or wings and feathers unto the ostrich?  39:14 Which leaveth her eggs
in the earth, and warmeth them in dust, 39:15 And forgetteth that the
foot may crush them, or that the wild beast may break them.

39:16 She is hardened against her young ones, as though they were not
her's: her labour is in vain without fear; 39:17 Because God hath
deprived her of wisdom, neither hath he imparted to her understanding.

39:18 What time she lifteth up herself on high, she scorneth the horse
and his rider.

39:19 Hast thou given the horse strength? hast thou clothed his neck
with thunder?  39:20 Canst thou make him afraid as a grasshopper? the
glory of his nostrils is terrible.

39:21 He paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in his strength: he goeth
on to meet the armed men.

39:22 He mocketh at fear, and is not affrighted; neither turneth he
back from the sword.

39:23 The quiver rattleth against him, the glittering spear and the
shield.

39:24 He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and rage: neither
believeth he that it is the sound of the trumpet.

39:25 He saith among the trumpets, Ha, ha; and he smelleth the battle
afar off, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.

39:26 Doth the hawk fly by thy wisdom, and stretch her wings toward
the south?  39:27 Doth the eagle mount up at thy command, and make her
nest on high?  39:28 She dwelleth and abideth on the rock, upon the
crag of the rock, and the strong place.

39:29 From thence she seeketh the prey, and her eyes behold afar off.

39:30 Her young ones also suck up blood: and where the slain are,
there is she.

40:1 Moreover the LORD answered Job, and said, 40:2 Shall he that
contendeth with the Almighty instruct him? he that reproveth God, let
him answer it.

40:3 Then Job answered the LORD, and said, 40:4 Behold, I am vile;
what shall I answer thee? I will lay mine hand upon my mouth.

40:5 Once have I spoken; but I will not answer: yea, twice; but I will
proceed no further.

40:6 Then answered the LORD unto Job out of the whirlwind, and said,
40:7 Gird up thy loins now like a man: I will demand of thee, and
declare thou unto me.

40:8 Wilt thou also disannul my judgment? wilt thou condemn me, that
thou mayest be righteous?  40:9 Hast thou an arm like God? or canst
thou thunder with a voice like him?  40:10 Deck thyself now with
majesty and excellency; and array thyself with glory and beauty.

40:11 Cast abroad the rage of thy wrath: and behold every one that is
proud, and abase him.

40:12 Look on every one that is proud, and bring him low; and tread
down the wicked in their place.

40:13 Hide them in the dust together; and bind their faces in secret.

40:14 Then will I also confess unto thee that thine own right hand can
save thee.

40:15 Behold now behemoth, which I made with thee; he eateth grass as
an ox.

40:16 Lo now, his strength is in his loins, and his force is in the
navel of his belly.

40:17 He moveth his tail like a cedar: the sinews of his stones are
wrapped together.

40:18 His bones are as strong pieces of brass; his bones are like bars
of iron.

40:19 He is the chief of the ways of God: he that made him can make
his sword to approach unto him.

40:20 Surely the mountains bring him forth food, where all the beasts
of the field play.

40:21 He lieth under the shady trees, in the covert of the reed, and
fens.

40:22 The shady trees cover him with their shadow; the willows of the
brook compass him about.

40:23 Behold, he drinketh up a river, and hasteth not: he trusteth
that he can draw up Jordan into his mouth.

40:24 He taketh it with his eyes: his nose pierceth through snares.

41:1 Canst thou draw out leviathan with an hook? or his tongue with a
cord which thou lettest down?  41:2 Canst thou put an hook into his
nose? or bore his jaw through with a thorn?  41:3 Will he make many
supplications unto thee? will he speak soft words unto thee?  41:4
Will he make a covenant with thee? wilt thou take him for a servant
for ever?  41:5 Wilt thou play with him as with a bird? or wilt thou
bind him for thy maidens?  41:6 Shall the companions make a banquet of
him? shall they part him among the merchants?  41:7 Canst thou fill
his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish spears?  41:8 Lay
thine hand upon him, remember the battle, do no more.

41:9 Behold, the hope of him is in vain: shall not one be cast down
even at the sight of him?  41:10 None is so fierce that dare stir him
up: who then is able to stand before me?  41:11 Who hath prevented me,
that I should repay him? whatsoever is under the whole heaven is mine.

41:12 I will not conceal his parts, nor his power, nor his comely
proportion.

41:13 Who can discover the face of his garment? or who can come to him
with his double bridle?  41:14 Who can open the doors of his face? his
teeth are terrible round about.

41:15 His scales are his pride, shut up together as with a close seal.

41:16 One is so near to another, that no air can come between them.

41:17 They are joined one to another, they stick together, that they
cannot be sundered.

41:18 By his neesings a light doth shine, and his eyes are like the
eyelids of the morning.

41:19 Out of his mouth go burning lamps, and sparks of fire leap out.

41:20 Out of his nostrils goeth smoke, as out of a seething pot or
caldron.

41:21 His breath kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth.

41:22 In his neck remaineth strength, and sorrow is turned into joy
before him.

41:23 The flakes of his flesh are joined together: they are firm in
themselves; they cannot be moved.

41:24 His heart is as firm as a stone; yea, as hard as a piece of the
nether millstone.

41:25 When he raiseth up himself, the mighty are afraid: by reason of
breakings they purify themselves.

41:26 The sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold: the spear, the
dart, nor the habergeon.

41:27 He esteemeth iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood.

41:28 The arrow cannot make him flee: slingstones are turned with him
into stubble.

41:29 Darts are counted as stubble: he laugheth at the shaking of a
spear.

41:30 Sharp stones are under him: he spreadeth sharp pointed things
upon the mire.

41:31 He maketh the deep to boil like a pot: he maketh the sea like a
pot of ointment.

41:32 He maketh a path to shine after him; one would think the deep to
be hoary.

41:33 Upon earth there is not his like, who is made without fear.

41:34 He beholdeth all high things: he is a king over all the children
of pride.

42:1 Then Job answered the LORD, and said, 42:2 I know that thou canst
do every thing, and that no thought can be withholden from thee.

42:3 Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? therefore have I
uttered that I understood not; things too wonderful for me, which I
knew not.

42:4 Hear, I beseech thee, and I will speak: I will demand of thee,
and declare thou unto me.

42:5 I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear: but now mine eye
seeth thee.

42:6 Wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes.

42:7 And it was so, that after the LORD had spoken these words unto
Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled
against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of
me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath.

42:8 Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go
to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and
my servant Job shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal
with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken of me the thing
which is right, like my servant Job.

42:9 So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the
Naamathite went, and did according as the LORD commanded them: the
LORD also accepted Job.

42:10 And the LORD turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his
friends: also the LORD gave Job twice as much as he had before.

42:11 Then came there unto him all his brethren, and all his sisters,
and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, and did eat
bread with him in his house: and they bemoaned him, and comforted him
over all the evil that the LORD had brought upon him: every man also
gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold.

42:12 So the LORD blessed the latter end of Job more than his
beginning: for he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand
camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses.

42:13 He had also seven sons and three daughters.

42:14 And he called the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the
second, Kezia; and the name of the third, Kerenhappuch.

42:15 And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters
of Job: and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren.

42:16 After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, and saw his
sons, and his sons' sons, even four generations.

42:17 So Job died, being old and full of days.




The Book of Psalms


1:1 Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly,
nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the
scornful.

1:2 But his delight is in the law of the LORD; and in his law doth he
meditate day and night.

1:3 And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that
bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not
wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.

1:4 The ungodly are not so: but are like the chaff which the wind
driveth away.

1:5 Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners
in the congregation of the righteous.

1:6 For the LORD knoweth the way of the righteous: but the way of the
ungodly shall perish.



2:1 Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing?

2:2 The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel
together, against the LORD, and against his anointed, saying,

2:3 Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from
us.

2:4 He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the LORD shall have
them in derision.

2:5 Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his
sore displeasure.

2:6 Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion.

2:7 I will declare the decree: the LORD hath said unto me, Thou art my
Son; this day have I begotten thee.

2:8 Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine
inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.

2:9 Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; thou shalt dash them in
pieces like a potter's vessel.

2:10 Be wise now therefore, O ye kings: be instructed, ye judges of
the earth.

2:11 Serve the LORD with fear, and rejoice with trembling.

2:12 Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way, when
his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their
trust in him.



3:1 Lord, how are they increased that trouble me! many are they that
rise up against me.

3:2 Many there be which say of my soul, There is no help for him in
God.

Selah.

3:3 But thou, O LORD, art a shield for me; my glory, and the lifter up
of mine head.

3:4 I cried unto the LORD with my voice, and he heard me out of his
holy hill. Selah.

3:5 I laid me down and slept; I awaked; for the LORD sustained me.

3:6 I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people, that have set
themselves against me round about.

3:7 Arise, O LORD; save me, O my God: for thou hast smitten all mine
enemies upon the cheek bone; thou hast broken the teeth of the
ungodly.

3:8 Salvation belongeth unto the LORD: thy blessing is upon thy
people.

Selah.



4:1 Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness: thou hast enlarged
me when I was in distress; have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer.

4:2 O ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into shame? how
long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing? Selah.

4:3 But know that the LORD hath set apart him that is godly for
himself: the LORD will hear when I call unto him.

4:4 Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart upon your
bed, and be still. Selah.

4:5 Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the
LORD.

4:6 There be many that say, Who will shew us any good? LORD, lift thou
up the light of thy countenance upon us.

4:7 Thou hast put gladness in my heart, more than in the time that
their corn and their wine increased.

4:8 I will both lay me down in peace, and sleep: for thou, LORD, only
makest me dwell in safety.



5:1 Give ear to my words, O LORD, consider my meditation.

5:2 Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for unto
thee will I pray.

5:3 My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O LORD; in the morning
will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up.

5:4 For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: neither
shall evil dwell with thee.

5:5 The foolish shall not stand in thy sight: thou hatest all workers
of iniquity.

5:6 Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing: the LORD will abhor
the bloody and deceitful man.

5:7 But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy
mercy: and in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple.

5:8 Lead me, O LORD, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies;
make thy way straight before my face.

5:9 For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; their inward part is
very wickedness; their throat is an open sepulchre; they flatter with
their tongue.

5:10 Destroy thou them, O God; let them fall by their own counsels;
cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for they have
rebelled against thee.

5:11 But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them
ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: let them also that
love thy name be joyful in thee.

5:12 For thou, LORD, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou
compass him as with a shield.



6:1 O LORD, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thy
hot displeasure.

6:2 Have mercy upon me, O LORD; for I am weak: O LORD, heal me; for my
bones are vexed.

6:3 My soul is also sore vexed: but thou, O LORD, how long?

6:4 Return, O LORD, deliver my soul: oh save me for thy mercies' sake.

6:5 For in death there is no remembrance of thee: in the grave who
shall give thee thanks?

6:6 I am weary with my groaning; all the night make I my bed to swim;
I water my couch with my tears.

6:7 Mine eye is consumed because of grief; it waxeth old because of
all mine enemies.

6:8 Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity; for the LORD hath
heard the voice of my weeping.

6:9 The LORD hath heard my supplication; the LORD will receive my
prayer.

6:10 Let all mine enemies be ashamed and sore vexed: let them return
and be ashamed suddenly.



7:1 O LORD my God, in thee do I put my trust: save me from all them
that persecute me, and deliver me:

7:2 Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces, while
there is none to deliver.

7:3 O LORD my God, If I have done this; if there be iniquity in my
hands;

7:4 If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (yea,
I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy:)

7:5 Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it; yea, let him tread
down my life upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah.

7:6 Arise, O LORD, in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rage
of mine enemies: and awake for me to the judgment that thou hast
commanded.

7:7 So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for
their sakes therefore return thou on high.

7:8 The LORD shall judge the people: judge me, O LORD, according to my
righteousness, and according to mine integrity that is in me.

7:9 Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but establish
the just: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reins.

7:10 My defence is of God, which saveth the upright in heart.

7:11 God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every
day.

7:12 If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he hath bent his bow, and
made it ready.

7:13 He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; he
ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors.

7:14 Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief,
and brought forth falsehood.

7:15 He made a pit, and digged it, and is fallen into the ditch which
he made.

7:16 His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent
dealing shall come down upon his own pate.

7:17 I will praise the LORD according to his righteousness: and will
sing praise to the name of the LORD most high.



8:1 O LORD, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! who
hast set thy glory above the heavens.

8:2 Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained
strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy
and the avenger.

8:3 When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and
the stars, which thou hast ordained;

8:4 What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man,
that thou visitest him?

8:5 For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast
crowned him with glory and honour.

8:6 Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou
hast put all things under his feet:

8:7 All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field;

8:8 The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever
passeth through the paths of the seas.

8:9 O LORD our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth!


9:1 I will praise thee, O LORD, with my whole heart; I will shew forth
all thy marvellous works.

9:2 I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing praise to thy
name, O thou most High.

9:3 When mine enemies are turned back, they shall fall and perish at
thy presence.

9:4 For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; thou satest in the
throne judging right.

9:5 Thou hast rebuked the heathen, thou hast destroyed the wicked,
thou hast put out their name for ever and ever.

9:6 O thou enemy, destructions are come to a perpetual end: and thou
hast destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with them.

9:7 But the LORD shall endure for ever: he hath prepared his throne
for judgment.

9:8 And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister
judgment to the people in uprightness.

9:9 The LORD also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in
times of trouble.

9:10 And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee: for
thou, LORD, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.

9:11 Sing praises to the LORD, which dwelleth in Zion: declare among
the people his doings.

9:12 When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them: he
forgetteth not the cry of the humble.

9:13 Have mercy upon me, O LORD; consider my trouble which I suffer of
them that hate me, thou that liftest me up from the gates of death:

9:14 That I may shew forth all thy praise in the gates of the daughter
of Zion: I will rejoice in thy salvation.

9:15 The heathen are sunk down in the pit that they made: in the net
which they hid is their own foot taken.

9:16 The LORD is known by the judgment which he executeth: the wicked
is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah.

9:17 The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that
forget God.

9:18 For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the expectation of
the poor shall not perish for ever.

9:19 Arise, O LORD; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in
thy sight.

9:20 Put them in fear, O LORD: that the nations may know themselves to
be but men. Selah.



10:1 Why standest thou afar off, O LORD? why hidest thou thyself in
times of trouble?

10:2 The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor: let them be
taken in the devices that they have imagined.

10:3 For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth the
covetous, whom the LORD abhorreth.

10:4 The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek
after God: God is not in all his thoughts.

10:5 His ways are always grievous; thy judgments are far above out of
his sight: as for all his enemies, he puffeth at them.

10:6 He hath said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for I shall
never be in adversity.

10:7 His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his
tongue is mischief and vanity.

10:8 He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages: in the secret
places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes are privily set against
the poor.

10:9 He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lieth in wait
to catch the poor: he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him into
his net.

10:10 He croucheth, and humbleth himself, that the poor may fall by
his strong ones.

10:11 He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten: he hideth his
face; he will never see it.

10:12 Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up thine hand: forget not the humble.

10:13 Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God? he hath said in his
heart, Thou wilt not require it.

10:14 Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to
requite it with thy hand: the poor committeth himself unto thee; thou
art the helper of the fatherless.

10:15 Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil man: seek out his
wickedness till thou find none.

10:16 The LORD is King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out
of his land.

10:17 LORD, thou hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt
prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear:

10:18 To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the
earth may no more oppress.



11:1 In the LORD put I my trust: how say ye to my soul, Flee as a bird
to your mountain?

11:2 For, lo, the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow
upon the string, that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart.

11:3 If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?

11:4 The LORD is in his holy temple, the LORD's throne is in heaven:
his eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men.

11:5 The LORD trieth the righteous: but the wicked and him that loveth
violence his soul hateth.

11:6 Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and an
horrible tempest: this shall be the portion of their cup.

11:7 For the righteous LORD loveth righteousness; his countenance doth
behold the upright.



12:1 Help, LORD; for the godly man ceaseth; for the faithful fail from
among the children of men.

12:2 They speak vanity every one with his neighbour: with flattering
lips and with a double heart do they speak.

12:3 The LORD shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that
speaketh proud things:

12:4 Who have said, With our tongue will we prevail; our lips are our
own: who is lord over us?

12:5 For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now
will I arise, saith the LORD; I will set him in safety from him that
puffeth at him.

12:6 The words of the LORD are pure words: as silver tried in a
furnace of earth, purified seven times.

12:7 Thou shalt keep them, O LORD, thou shalt preserve them from this
generation for ever.

12:8 The wicked walk on every side, when the vilest men are exalted.



13:1 How long wilt thou forget me, O LORD? for ever? how long wilt
thou hide thy face from me?

13:2 How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my
heart daily? how long shall mine enemy be exalted over me?

13:3 Consider and hear me, O LORD my God: lighten mine eyes, lest I
sleep the sleep of death;

13:4 Lest mine enemy say, I have prevailed against him; and those that
trouble me rejoice when I am moved.

13:5 But I have trusted in thy mercy; my heart shall rejoice in thy
salvation.

13:6 I will sing unto the LORD, because he hath dealt bountifully with
me.



14:1 The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are
corrupt, they have done abominable works, there is none that doeth
good.

14:2 The LORD looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see
if there were any that did understand, and seek God.

14:3 They are all gone aside, they are all together become filthy:
there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

14:4 Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my
people as they eat bread, and call not upon the LORD.

14:5 There were they in great fear: for God is in the generation of
the righteous.

14:6 Ye have shamed the counsel of the poor, because the LORD is his
refuge.

14:7 Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! when the
LORD bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice,
and Israel shall be glad.



15:1 Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? who shall dwell in thy
holy hill?

15:2 He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and
speaketh the truth in his heart.

15:3 He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his
neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour.

15:4 In whose eyes a vile person is contemned; but he honoureth them
that fear the LORD. He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth
not.

15:5 He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward
against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved.



16:1 Preserve me, O God: for in thee do I put my trust.

16:2 O my soul, thou hast said unto the LORD, Thou art my Lord: my
goodness extendeth not to thee;

16:3 But to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent, in
whom is all my delight.

16:4 Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another god:
their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their
names into my lips.

16:5 The LORD is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup: thou
maintainest my lot.

16:6 The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a
goodly heritage.

16:7 I will bless the LORD, who hath given me counsel: my reins also
instruct me in the night seasons.

16:8 I have set the LORD always before me: because he is at my right
hand, I shall not be moved.

16:9 Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth: my flesh also
shall rest in hope.

16:10 For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; neither wilt thou
suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.

16:11 Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is fulness
of joy; at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.



17:1 Hear the right, O LORD, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my
prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips.

17:2 Let my sentence come forth from thy presence; let thine eyes
behold the things that are equal.

17:3 Thou hast proved mine heart; thou hast visited me in the night;
thou hast tried me, and shalt find nothing; I am purposed that my
mouth shall not transgress.

17:4 Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept
me from the paths of the destroyer.

17:5 Hold up my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps slip not.

17:6 I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God: incline
thine ear unto me, and hear my speech.

17:7 Shew thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by thy
right hand them which put their trust in thee from those that rise up
against them.

17:8 Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy
wings,

17:9 From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who
compass me about.

17:10 They are inclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak
proudly.

17:11 They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their
eyes bowing down to the earth;

17:12 Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, and as it were a
young lion lurking in secret places.

17:13 Arise, O LORD, disappoint him, cast him down: deliver my soul
from the wicked, which is thy sword:

17:14 From men which are thy hand, O LORD, from men of the world,
which have their portion in this life, and whose belly thou fillest
with thy hid treasure: they are full of children, and leave the rest
of their substance to their babes.

17:15 As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be
satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.



18:1 I will love thee, O LORD, my strength.

18:2 The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God,
my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my
salvation, and my high tower.

18:3 I will call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised: so shall
I be saved from mine enemies.

18:4 The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men
made me afraid.

18:5 The sorrows of hell compassed me about: the snares of death
prevented me.

18:6 In my distress I called upon the LORD, and cried unto my God: he
heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, even
into his ears.

18:7 Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations also of the
hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth.

18:8 There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his
mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.

18:9 He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness was under
his feet.

18:10 And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upon the
wings of the wind.

18:11 He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him
were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies.

18:12 At the brightness that was before him his thick clouds passed,
hail stones and coals of fire.

18:13 The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his
voice; hail stones and coals of fire.

18:14 Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out
lightnings, and discomfited them.

18:15 Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of
the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the
breath of thy nostrils.

18:16 He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters.

18:17 He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them which hated
me: for they were too strong for me.

18:18 They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my
stay.

18:19 He brought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me,
because he delighted in me.

18:20 The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to
the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.

18:21 For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly
departed from my God.

18:22 For all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his
statutes from me.

18:23 I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine
iniquity.

18:24 Therefore hath the LORD recompensed me according to my
righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.

18:25 With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful; with an
upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright;

18:26 With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward
thou wilt shew thyself froward.

18:27 For thou wilt save the afflicted people; but wilt bring down
high looks.

18:28 For thou wilt light my candle: the LORD my God will enlighten my
darkness.

18:29 For by thee I have run through a troop; and by my God have I
leaped over a wall.

18:30 As for God, his way is perfect: the word of the LORD is tried:
he is a buckler to all those that trust in him.

18:31 For who is God save the LORD? or who is a rock save our God?

18:32 It is God that girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way
perfect.

18:33 He maketh my feet like hinds' feet, and setteth me upon my high
places.

18:34 He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by
mine arms.

18:35 Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy
right hand hath holden me up, and thy gentleness hath made me great.

18:36 Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip.

18:37 I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them: neither did I
turn again till they were consumed.

18:38 I have wounded them that they were not able to rise: they are
fallen under my feet.

18:39 For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle: thou hast
subdued under me those that rose up against me.

18:40 Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies; that I might
destroy them that hate me.

18:41 They cried, but there was none to save them: even unto the LORD,
but he answered them not.

18:42 Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did
cast them out as the dirt in the streets.

18:43 Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people; and
thou hast made me the head of the heathen: a people whom I have not
known shall serve me.

18:44 As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me: the strangers
shall submit themselves unto me.

18:45 The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their close
places.

18:46 The LORD liveth; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my
salvation be exalted.

18:47 It is God that avengeth me, and subdueth the people under me.

18:48 He delivereth me from mine enemies: yea, thou liftest me up
above those that rise up against me: thou hast delivered me from the
violent man.

18:49 Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the
heathen, and sing praises unto thy name.

18:50 Great deliverance giveth he to his king; and sheweth mercy to
his anointed, to David, and to his seed for evermore.



19:1 The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth
his handywork.

19:2 Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth
knowledge.

19:3 There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.

19:4 Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to
the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun,

19:5 Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth
as a strong man to run a race.

19:6 His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit
unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.

19:7 The law of the LORD is perfect, converting the soul: the
testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple.

19:8 The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart: the
commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes.

19:9 The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments
of the LORD are true and righteous altogether.

19:10 More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold:
sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.

19:11 Moreover by them is thy servant warned: and in keeping of them
there is great reward.

19:12 Who can understand his errors? cleanse thou me from secret
faults.

19:13 Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not
have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be
innocent from the great transgression.

19:14 Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be
acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer.



20:1 The LORD hear thee in the day of trouble; the name of the God of
Jacob defend thee;

20:2 Send thee help from the sanctuary, and strengthen thee out of
Zion;

20:3 Remember all thy offerings, and accept thy burnt sacrifice;
Selah.

20:4 Grant thee according to thine own heart, and fulfil all thy
counsel.

20:5 We will rejoice in thy salvation, and in the name of our God we
will set up our banners: the LORD fulfil all thy petitions.

20:6 Now know I that the LORD saveth his anointed; he will hear him
from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand.

20:7 Some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember
the name of the LORD our God.

20:8 They are brought down and fallen: but we are risen, and stand
upright.

20:9 Save, LORD: let the king hear us when we call.



21:1 The king shall joy in thy strength, O LORD; and in thy salvation
how greatly shall he rejoice!

21:2 Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withholden
the request of his lips. Selah.

21:3 For thou preventest him with the blessings of goodness: thou
settest a crown of pure gold on his head.

21:4 He asked life of thee, and thou gavest it him, even length of
days for ever and ever.

21:5 His glory is great in thy salvation: honour and majesty hast thou
laid upon him.

21:6 For thou hast made him most blessed for ever: thou hast made him
exceeding glad with thy countenance.

21:7 For the king trusteth in the LORD, and through the mercy of the
most High he shall not be moved.

21:8 Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies: thy right hand shall
find out those that hate thee.

21:9 Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger:
the LORD shall swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour
them.

21:10 Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed
from among the children of men.

21:11 For they intended evil against thee: they imagined a mischievous
device, which they are not able to perform.

21:12 Therefore shalt thou make them turn their back, when thou shalt
make ready thine arrows upon thy strings against the face of them.

21:13 Be thou exalted, LORD, in thine own strength: so will we sing
and praise thy power.



22:1 My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why art thou so far
from helping me, and from the words of my roaring?

22:2 O my God, I cry in the day time, but thou hearest not; and in the
night season, and am not silent.

22:3 But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel.

22:4 Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver
them.

22:5 They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee,
and were not confounded.

22:6 But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of
the people.

22:7 All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip,
they shake the head, saying,

22:8 He trusted on the LORD that he would deliver him: let him deliver
him, seeing he delighted in him.

22:9 But thou art he that took me out of the womb: thou didst make me
hope when I was upon my mother's breasts.

22:10 I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou art my God from my
mother's belly.

22:11 Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to
help.

22:12 Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset
me round.

22:13 They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and a
roaring lion.

22:14 I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint:
my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.

22:15 My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth
to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death.

22:16 For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have
inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.

22:17 I may tell all my bones: they look and stare upon me.

22:18 They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.

22:19 But be not thou far from me, O LORD: O my strength, haste thee
to help me.

22:20 Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the
dog.

22:21 Save me from the lion's mouth: for thou hast heard me from the
horns of the unicorns.

22:22 I will declare thy name unto my brethren: in the midst of the
congregation will I praise thee.

22:23 Ye that fear the LORD, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob,
glorify him; and fear him, all ye the seed of Israel.

22:24 For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the
afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried
unto him, he heard.

22:25 My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation: I will pay
my vows before them that fear him.

22:26 The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD
that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.

22:27 All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the LORD:
and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.

22:28 For the kingdom is the LORD's: and he is the governor among the
nations.

22:29 All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they
that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive
his own soul.

22:30 A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a
generation.

22:31 They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a
people that shall be born, that he hath done this.



23:1 The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.

23:2 He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside
the still waters.

23:3 He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness
for his name's sake.

23:4 Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I
will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they
comfort me.

23:5 Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies:
thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.

23:6 Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my
life: and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.



24:1 The earth is the LORD's, and the fulness thereof; the world, and
they that dwell therein.

24:2 For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the
floods.

24:3 Who shall ascend into the hill of the LORD? or who shall stand in
his holy place?

24:4 He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted
up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully.

24:5 He shall receive the blessing from the LORD, and righteousness
from the God of his salvation.

24:6 This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face,
O Jacob. Selah.

24:7 Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting
doors; and the King of glory shall come in.

24:8 Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD
mighty in battle.

24:9 Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye everlasting
doors; and the King of glory shall come in.

24:10 Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of
glory. Selah.



25:1 Unto thee, O LORD, do I lift up my soul.

25:2 O my God, I trust in thee: let me not be ashamed, let not mine
enemies triumph over me.

25:3 Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed: let them be ashamed
which transgress without cause.

25:4 Shew me thy ways, O LORD; teach me thy paths.

25:5 Lead me in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my
salvation; on thee do I wait all the day.

25:6 Remember, O LORD, thy tender mercies and thy lovingkindnesses;
for they have been ever of old.

25:7 Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions:
according to thy mercy remember thou me for thy goodness' sake, O
LORD.

25:8 Good and upright is the LORD: therefore will he teach sinners in
the way.

25:9 The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach
his way.

25:10 All the paths of the LORD are mercy and truth unto such as keep
his covenant and his testimonies.

25:11 For thy name's sake, O LORD, pardon mine iniquity; for it is
great.

25:12 What man is he that feareth the LORD? him shall he teach in the
way that he shall choose.

25:13 His soul shall dwell at ease; and his seed shall inherit the
earth.

25:14 The secret of the LORD is with them that fear him; and he will
shew them his covenant.

25:15 Mine eyes are ever toward the LORD; for he shall pluck my feet
out of the net.

25:16 Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; for I am desolate and
afflicted.

25:17 The troubles of my heart are enlarged: O bring thou me out of my
distresses.

25:18 Look upon mine affliction and my pain; and forgive all my sins.

25:19 Consider mine enemies; for they are many; and they hate me with
cruel hatred.

25:20 O keep my soul, and deliver me: let me not be ashamed; for I put
my trust in thee.

25:21 Let integrity and uprightness preserve me; for I wait on thee.

25:22 Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.



26:1 Judge me, O LORD; for I have walked in mine integrity: I have
trusted also in the LORD; therefore I shall not slide.

26:2 Examine me, O LORD, and prove me; try my reins and my heart.

26:3 For thy lovingkindness is before mine eyes: and I have walked in
thy truth.

26:4 I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with
dissemblers.

26:5 I have hated the congregation of evil doers; and will not sit
with the wicked.

26:6 I will wash mine hands in innocency: so will I compass thine
altar, O LORD:

26:7 That I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving, and tell of
all thy wondrous works.

26:8 LORD, I have loved the habitation of thy house, and the place
where thine honour dwelleth.

26:9 Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men:

26:10 In whose hands is mischief, and their right hand is full of
bribes.

26:11 But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity: redeem me, and be
merciful unto me.

26:12 My foot standeth in an even place: in the congregations will I
bless the LORD.



27:1 The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the
LORD is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?

27:2 When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to
eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell.

27:3 Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear:
though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident.

27:4 One thing have I desired of the LORD, that will I seek after;
that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to
behold the beauty of the LORD, and to enquire in his temple.

27:5 For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion: in
the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up upon
a rock.

27:6 And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round
about me: therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy;
I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the LORD.

27:7 Hear, O LORD, when I cry with my voice: have mercy also upon me,
and answer me.

27:8 When thou saidst, Seek ye my face; my heart said unto thee, Thy
face, LORD, will I seek.

27:9 Hide not thy face far from me; put not thy servant away in anger:
thou hast been my help; leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my
salvation.

27:10 When my father and my mother forsake me, then the LORD will take
me up.

27:11 Teach me thy way, O LORD, and lead me in a plain path, because
of mine enemies.

27:12 Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies: for false
witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty.

27:13 I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the
LORD in the land of the living.

27:14 Wait on the LORD: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen
thine heart: wait, I say, on the LORD.



28:1 Unto thee will I cry, O LORD my rock; be not silent to me: lest,
if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit.

28:2 Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, when I
lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle.

28:3 Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of
iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbours, but mischief is in
their hearts.

28:4 Give them according to their deeds, and according to the
wickedness of their endeavours: give them after the work of their
hands; render to them their desert.

28:5 Because they regard not the works of the LORD, nor the operation
of his hands, he shall destroy them, and not build them up.

28:6 Blessed be the LORD, because he hath heard the voice of my
supplications.

28:7 The LORD is my strength and my shield; my heart trusted in him,
and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; and with my
song will I praise him.

28:8 The LORD is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his
anointed.

28:9 Save thy people, and bless thine inheritance: feed them also, and
lift them up for ever.



29:1 Give unto the LORD, O ye mighty, give unto the LORD glory and
strength.

29:2 Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name; worship the LORD
in the beauty of holiness.

29:3 The voice of the LORD is upon the waters: the God of glory
thundereth: the LORD is upon many waters.

29:4 The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full
of majesty.

29:5 The voice of the LORD breaketh the cedars; yea, the LORD breaketh
the cedars of Lebanon.

29:6 He maketh them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like
a young unicorn.

29:7 The voice of the LORD divideth the flames of fire.

29:8 The voice of the LORD shaketh the wilderness; the LORD shaketh
the wilderness of Kadesh.

29:9 The voice of the LORD maketh the hinds to calve, and discovereth
the forests: and in his temple doth every one speak of his glory.

29:10 The LORD sitteth upon the flood; yea, the LORD sitteth King for
ever.

29:11 The LORD will give strength unto his people; the LORD will bless
his people with peace.



30:1 I will extol thee, O LORD; for thou hast lifted me up, and hast
not made my foes to rejoice over me.

30:2 O LORD my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me.

30:3 O LORD, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave: thou hast
kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit.

30:4 Sing unto the LORD, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the
remembrance of his holiness.

30:5 For his anger endureth but a moment; in his favour is life:
weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.

30:6 And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved.

30:7 LORD, by thy favour thou hast made my mountain to stand strong:
thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled.

30:8 I cried to thee, O LORD; and unto the LORD I made supplication.

30:9 What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit?
Shall the dust praise thee? shall it declare thy truth?

30:10 Hear, O LORD, and have mercy upon me: LORD, be thou my helper.

30:11 Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing: thou hast put
off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness;

30:12 To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee, and not be
silent.

O LORD my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever.



31:1 In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed:
deliver me in thy righteousness.

31:2 Bow down thine ear to me; deliver me speedily: be thou my strong
rock, for an house of defence to save me.

31:3 For thou art my rock and my fortress; therefore for thy name's
sake lead me, and guide me.

31:4 Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me: for
thou art my strength.

31:5 Into thine hand I commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O LORD
God of truth.

31:6 I have hated them that regard lying vanities: but I trust in the
LORD.

31:7 I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: for thou hast considered
my trouble; thou hast known my soul in adversities;

31:8 And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set
my feet in a large room.

31:9 Have mercy upon me, O LORD, for I am in trouble: mine eye is
consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly.

31:10 For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my
strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed.

31:11 I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my
neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that did see me
without fled from me.

31:12 I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken
vessel.

31:13 For I have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side:
while they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away
my life.

31:14 But I trusted in thee, O LORD: I said, Thou art my God.

31:15 My times are in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine
enemies, and from them that persecute me.

31:16 Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me for thy
mercies' sake.

31:17 Let me not be ashamed, O LORD; for I have called upon thee: let
the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave.

31:18 Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous
things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous.

31:19 Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them
that fear thee; which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee
before the sons of men!

31:20 Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the
pride of man: thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the
strife of tongues.

31:21 Blessed be the LORD: for he hath shewed me his marvellous
kindness in a strong city.

31:22 For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes:
nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried
unto thee.

31:23 O love the LORD, all ye his saints: for the LORD preserveth the
faithful, and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer.

31:24 Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye
that hope in the LORD.



32:1 Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is
covered.

32:2 Blessed is the man unto whom the LORD imputeth not iniquity, and
in whose spirit there is no guile.

32:3 When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all
the day long.

32:4 For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me: my moisture is
turned into the drought of summer. Selah.

32:5 I acknowledge my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid.
I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the LORD; and thou
forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah.

32:6 For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time
when thou mayest be found: surely in the floods of great waters they
shall not come nigh unto him.

32:7 Thou art my hiding place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble;
thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. Selah.

32:8 I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt
go: I will guide thee with mine eye.

32:9 Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no
understanding: whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, lest
they come near unto thee.

32:10 Many sorrows shall be to the wicked: but he that trusteth in the
LORD, mercy shall compass him about.

32:11 Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, ye righteous: and shout for
joy, all ye that are upright in heart.



33:1 Rejoice in the LORD, O ye righteous: for praise is comely for the
upright.

33:2 Praise the LORD with harp: sing unto him with the psaltery and an
instrument of ten strings.

33:3 Sing unto him a new song; play skilfully with a loud noise.

33:4 For the word of the LORD is right; and all his works are done in
truth.

33:5 He loveth righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the
goodness of the LORD.

33:6 By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host
of them by the breath of his mouth.

33:7 He gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap: he layeth
up the depth in storehouses.

33:8 Let all the earth fear the LORD: let all the inhabitants of the
world stand in awe of him.

33:9 For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast.

33:10 The LORD bringeth the counsel of the heathen to nought: he
maketh the devices of the people of none effect.

33:11 The counsel of the LORD standeth for ever, the thoughts of his
heart to all generations.

33:12 Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD; and the people whom
he hath chosen for his own inheritance.

33:13 The LORD looketh from heaven; he beholdeth all the sons of men.

33:14 From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the
inhabitants of the earth.

33:15 He fashioneth their hearts alike; he considereth all their
works.

33:16 There is no king saved by the multitude of an host: a mighty man
is not delivered by much strength.

33:17 An horse is a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver
any by his great strength.

33:18 Behold, the eye of the LORD is upon them that fear him, upon
them that hope in his mercy;

33:19 To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in
famine.

33:20 Our soul waiteth for the LORD: he is our help and our shield.

33:21 For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in
his holy name.

33:22 Let thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according as we hope in thee.



34:1 I will bless the LORD at all times: his praise shall continually
be in my mouth.

34:2 My soul shall make her boast in the LORD: the humble shall hear
thereof, and be glad.

34:3 O magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together.

34:4 I sought the LORD, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my
fears.

34:5 They looked unto him, and were lightened: and their faces were
not ashamed.

34:6 This poor man cried, and the LORD heard him, and saved him out of
all his troubles.

34:7 The angel of the LORD encampeth round about them that fear him,
and delivereth them.

34:8 O taste and see that the LORD is good: blessed is the man that
trusteth in him.

34:9 O fear the LORD, ye his saints: for there is no want to them that
fear him.

34:10 The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger: but they that seek
the LORD shall not want any good thing.

34:11 Come, ye children, hearken unto me: I will teach you the fear of
the LORD.

34:12 What man is he that desireth life, and loveth many days, that he
may see good?

34:13 Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile.

34:14 Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it.

34:15 The eyes of the LORD are upon the righteous, and his ears are
open unto their cry.

34:16 The face of the LORD is against them that do evil, to cut off
the remembrance of them from the earth.

34:17 The righteous cry, and the LORD heareth, and delivereth them out
of all their troubles.

34:18 The LORD is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and
saveth such as be of a contrite spirit.

34:19 Many are the afflictions of the righteous: but the LORD
delivereth him out of them all.

34:20 He keepeth all his bones: not one of them is broken.

34:21 Evil shall slay the wicked: and they that hate the righteous
shall be desolate.

34:22 The LORD redeemeth the soul of his servants: and none of them
that trust in him shall be desolate.



35:1 Plead my cause, O LORD, with them that strive with me: fight
against them that fight against me.

35:2 Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help.

35:3 Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that
persecute me: say unto my soul, I am thy salvation.

35:4 Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul:
let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt.

35:5 Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the
LORD chase them.

35:6 Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the LORD
persecute them.

35:7 For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, which
without cause they have digged for my soul.

35:8 Let destruction come upon him at unawares; and let his net that
he hath hid catch himself: into that very destruction let him fall.

35:9 And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD: it shall rejoice in his
salvation.

35:10 All my bones shall say, LORD, who is like unto thee, which
deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor
and the needy from him that spoileth him?

35:11 False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge things that
I knew not.

35:12 They rewarded me evil for good to the spoiling of my soul.

35:13 But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth: I
humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into mine own
bosom.

35:14 I behaved myself as though he had been my friend or brother: I
bowed down heavily, as one that mourneth for his mother.

35:15 But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves
together: yea, the abjects gathered themselves together against me,
and I knew it not; they did tear me, and ceased not:

35:16 With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashed upon me with
their teeth.

35:17 Lord, how long wilt thou look on? rescue my soul from their
destructions, my darling from the lions.

35:18 I will give thee thanks in the great congregation: I will praise
thee among much people.

35:19 Let not them that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me:
neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause.

35:20 For they speak not peace: but they devise deceitful matters
against them that are quiet in the land.

35:21 Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me, and said, Aha,
aha, our eye hath seen it.

35:22 This thou hast seen, O LORD: keep not silence: O Lord, be not
far from me.

35:23 Stir up thyself, and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause,
my God and my Lord.

35:24 Judge me, O LORD my God, according to thy righteousness; and let
them not rejoice over me.

35:25 Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so would we have it: let
them not say, We have swallowed him up.

35:26 Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that
rejoice at mine hurt: let them be clothed with shame and dishonour
that magnify themselves against me.

35:27 Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous
cause: yea, let them say continually, Let the LORD be magnified, which
hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant.

35:28 And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness and of thy praise
all the day long.



36:1 The transgression of the wicked saith within my heart, that there
is no fear of God before his eyes.

36:2 For he flattereth himself in his own eyes, until his iniquity be
found to be hateful.

36:3 The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit: he hath left off
to be wise, and to do good.

36:4 He deviseth mischief upon his bed; he setteth himself in a way
that is not good; he abhorreth not evil.

36:5 Thy mercy, O LORD, is in the heavens; and thy faithfulness
reacheth unto the clouds.

36:6 Thy righteousness is like the great mountains; thy judgments are
a great deep: O LORD, thou preservest man and beast.

36:7 How excellent is thy lovingkindness, O God! therefore the
children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings.

36:8 They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house;
and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures.

36:9 For with thee is the fountain of life: in thy light shall we see
light.

36:10 O continue thy lovingkindness unto them that know thee; and thy
righteousness to the upright in heart.

36:11 Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand
of the wicked remove me.

36:12 There are the workers of iniquity fallen: they are cast down,
and shall not be able to rise.



37:1 Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious
against the workers of iniquity.

37:2 For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the
green herb.

37:3 Trust in the LORD, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land,
and verily thou shalt be fed.

37:4 Delight thyself also in the LORD: and he shall give thee the
desires of thine heart.

37:5 Commit thy way unto the LORD; trust also in him; and he shall
bring it to pass.

37:6 And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy
judgment as the noonday.

37:7 Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself
because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who
bringeth wicked devices to pass.

37:8 Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself in any wise
to do evil.

37:9 For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait upon the
LORD, they shall inherit the earth.

37:10 For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be: yea, thou
shalt diligently consider his place, and it shall not be.

37:11 But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight
themselves in the abundance of peace.

37:12 The wicked plotteth against the just, and gnasheth upon him with
his teeth.

37:13 The LORD shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day is
coming.

37:14 The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to
cast down the poor and needy, and to slay such as be of upright
conversation.

37:15 Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows
shall be broken.

37:16 A little that a righteous man hath is better than the riches of
many wicked.

37:17 For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the LORD
upholdeth the righteous.

37:18 The LORD knoweth the days of the upright: and their inheritance
shall be for ever.

37:19 They shall not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of
famine they shall be satisfied.

37:20 But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the LORD shall
be as the fat of lambs: they shall consume; into smoke shall they
consume away.

37:21 The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again: but the righteous
sheweth mercy, and giveth.

37:22 For such as be blessed of him shall inherit the earth; and they
that be cursed of him shall be cut off.

37:23 The steps of a good man are ordered by the LORD: and he
delighteth in his way.

37:24 Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down: for the LORD
upholdeth him with his hand.

37:25 I have been young, and now am old; yet have I not seen the
righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.

37:26 He is ever merciful, and lendeth; and his seed is blessed.

37:27 Depart from evil, and do good; and dwell for evermore.

37:28 For the LORD loveth judgment, and forsaketh not his saints; they
are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.

37:29 The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein for
ever.

37:30 The mouth of the righteous speaketh wisdom, and his tongue
talketh of judgment.

37:31 The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps shall
slide.

37:32 The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him.

37:33 The LORD will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he
is judged.

37:34 Wait on the LORD, and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to
inherit the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it.

37:35 I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself
like a green bay tree.

37:36 Yet he passed away, and, lo, he was not: yea, I sought him, but
he could not be found.

37:37 Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright: for the end of
that man is peace.

37:38 But the transgressors shall be destroyed together: the end of
the wicked shall be cut off.

37:39 But the salvation of the righteous is of the LORD: he is their
strength in the time of trouble.

37:40 And the LORD shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver
them from the wicked, and save them, because they trust in him.



38:1 O lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath: neither chasten me in thy hot
displeasure.

38:2 For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore.

38:3 There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger; neither
is there any rest in my bones because of my sin.

38:4 For mine iniquities are gone over mine head: as an heavy burden
they are too heavy for me.

38:5 My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness.

38:6 I am troubled; I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day
long.

38:7 For my loins are filled with a loathsome disease: and there is no
soundness in my flesh.

38:8 I am feeble and sore broken: I have roared by reason of the
disquietness of my heart.

38:9 Lord, all my desire is before thee; and my groaning is not hid
from thee.

38:10 My heart panteth, my strength faileth me: as for the light of
mine eyes, it also is gone from me.

38:11 My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sore; and my
kinsmen stand afar off.

38:12 They also that seek after my life lay snares for me: and they
that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and imagine deceits all
the day long.

38:13 But I, as a deaf man, heard not; and I was as a dumb man that
openeth not his mouth.

38:14 Thus I was as a man that heareth not, and in whose mouth are no
reproofs.

38:15 For in thee, O LORD, do I hope: thou wilt hear, O Lord my God.

38:16 For I said, Hear me, lest otherwise they should rejoice over me:
when my foot slippeth, they magnify themselves against me.

38:17 For I am ready to halt, and my sorrow is continually before me.

38:18 For I will declare mine iniquity; I will be sorry for my sin.

38:19 But mine enemies are lively, and they are strong: and they that
hate me wrongfully are multiplied.

38:20 They also that render evil for good are mine adversaries;
because I follow the thing that good is.

38:21 Forsake me not, O LORD: O my God, be not far from me.

38:22 Make haste to help me, O Lord my salvation.



39:1 I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my
tongue: I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before
me.

39:2 I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, even from good; and my
sorrow was stirred.

39:3 My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned:
then spake I with my tongue,

39:4 LORD, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what
it is: that I may know how frail I am.

39:5 Behold, thou hast made my days as an handbreadth; and mine age is
as nothing before thee: verily every man at his best state is
altogether vanity.

Selah.

39:6 Surely every man walketh in a vain shew: surely they are
disquieted in vain: he heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall
gather them.

39:7 And now, Lord, what wait I for? my hope is in thee.

39:8 Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach
of the foolish.

39:9 I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because thou didst it.

39:10 Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of
thine hand.

39:11 When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou
makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely every man is
vanity. Selah.

39:12 Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear unto my cry; hold not thy
peace at my tears: for I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner, as
all my fathers were.

39:13 O spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and
be no more.



40:1 I waited patiently for the LORD; and he inclined unto me, and
heard my cry.

40:2 He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry
clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings.

40:3 And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God:
many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the LORD.

40:4 Blessed is that man that maketh the LORD his trust, and
respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.

40:5 Many, O LORD my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast
done, and thy thoughts which are to us-ward: they cannot be reckoned
up in order unto thee: if I would declare and speak of them, they are
more than can be numbered.

40:6 Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; mine ears hast thou
opened: burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required.

40:7 Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the book it is written
of me,

40:8 I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea, thy law is within my
heart.

40:9 I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I
have not refrained my lips, O LORD, thou knowest.

40:10 I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart; I have
declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation: I have not concealed thy
lovingkindness and thy truth from the great congregation.

40:11 Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O LORD: let thy
lovingkindness and thy truth continually preserve me.

40:12 For innumerable evils have compassed me about: mine iniquities
have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up; they are
more than the hairs of mine head: therefore my heart faileth me.

40:13 Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me: O LORD, make haste to help
me.

40:14 Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my
soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that
wish me evil.

40:15 Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto
me, Aha, aha.

40:16 Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: let
such as love thy salvation say continually, The LORD be magnified.

40:17 But I am poor and needy; yet the Lord thinketh upon me: thou art
my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God.



41:1 Blessed is he that considereth the poor: the LORD will deliver
him in time of trouble.

41:2 The LORD will preserve him, and keep him alive; and he shall be
blessed upon the earth: and thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of
his enemies.

41:3 The LORD will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing: thou
wilt make all his bed in his sickness.

41:4 I said, LORD, be merciful unto me: heal my soul; for I have
sinned against thee.

41:5 Mine enemies speak evil of me, When shall he die, and his name
perish?

41:6 And if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity: his heart gathereth
iniquity to itself; when he goeth abroad, he telleth it.

41:7 All that hate me whisper together against me: against me do they
devise my hurt.

41:8 An evil disease, say they, cleaveth fast unto him: and now that
he lieth he shall rise up no more.

41:9 Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat
of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me.

41:10 But thou, O LORD, be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that I
may requite them.

41:11 By this I know that thou favourest me, because mine enemy doth
not triumph over me.

41:12 And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest
me before thy face for ever.

41:13 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting, and to
everlasting. Amen, and Amen.



42:1 As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul
after thee, O God.

42:2 My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: when shall I come
and appear before God?

42:3 My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually
say unto me, Where is thy God?

42:4 When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me: for I had
gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with
the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holyday.

42:5 Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted in
me?  hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him for the help of his
countenance.

42:6 O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I
remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the
hill Mizar.

42:7 Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy
waves and thy billows are gone over me.

42:8 Yet the LORD will command his lovingkindness in the day time, and
in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of
my life.

42:9 I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I
mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?

42:10 As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me; while
they say daily unto me, Where is thy God?

42:11 Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted
within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the
health of my countenance, and my God.



43:1 Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation: O
deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man.

43:2 For thou art the God of my strength: why dost thou cast me off?
why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?

43:3 O send out thy light and thy truth: let them lead me; let them
bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles.

43:4 Then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy:
yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God my God.

43:5 Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted
within me? hope in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health
of my countenance, and my God.



44:1 We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us,
what work thou didst in their days, in the times of old.

44:2 How thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand, and plantedst
them; how thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out.

44:3 For they got not the land in possession by their own sword,
neither did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine
arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hadst a favour
unto them.

44:4 Thou art my King, O God: command deliverances for Jacob.

44:5 Through thee will we push down our enemies: through thy name will
we tread them under that rise up against us.

44:6 For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me.

44:7 But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to
shame that hated us.

44:8 In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name for ever.

Selah.

44:9 But thou hast cast off, and put us to shame; and goest not forth
with our armies.

44:10 Thou makest us to turn back from the enemy: and they which hate
us spoil for themselves.

44:11 Thou hast given us like sheep appointed for meat; and hast
scattered us among the heathen.

44:12 Thou sellest thy people for nought, and dost not increase thy
wealth by their price.

44:13 Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and a
derision to them that are round about us.

44:14 Thou makest us a byword among the heathen, a shaking of the head
among the people.

44:15 My confusion is continually before me, and the shame of my face
hath covered me,

44:16 For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth; by reason
of the enemy and avenger.

44:17 All this is come upon us; yet have we not forgotten thee,
neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant.

44:18 Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined
from thy way;

44:19 Though thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons, and
covered us with the shadow of death.

44:20 If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our
hands to a strange god;

44:21 Shall not God search this out? for he knoweth the secrets of the
heart.

44:22 Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long; we are counted
as sheep for the slaughter.

44:23 Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, cast us not off for
ever.

44:24 Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and forgettest our affliction
and our oppression?

44:25 For our soul is bowed down to the dust: our belly cleaveth unto
the earth.

44:26 Arise for our help, and redeem us for thy mercies' sake.



45:1 My heart is inditing a good matter: I speak of the things which I
have made touching the king: my tongue is the pen of a ready writer.

45:2 Thou art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into
thy lips: therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.

45:3 Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory and
thy majesty.

45:4 And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and
meekness and righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee
terrible things.

45:5 Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies;
whereby the people fall under thee.

45:6 Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy
kingdom is a right sceptre.

45:7 Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God,
thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy
fellows.

45:8 All thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of
the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad.

45:9 Kings' daughters were among thy honourable women: upon thy right
hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.

45:10 Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget
also thine own people, and thy father's house;

45:11 So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty: for he is thy Lord;
and worship thou him.

45:12 And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift; even the
rich among the people shall intreat thy favour.

45:13 The king's daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of
wrought gold.

45:14 She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework: the
virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought unto thee.

45:15 With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought: they shall
enter into the king's palace.

45:16 Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest
make princes in all the earth.

45:17 I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations:
therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever.



46:1 God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.

46:2 Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and
though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea;

46:3 Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the
mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah.

46:4 There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of
God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most High.

46:5 God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: God shall
help her, and that right early.

46:6 The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved: he uttered his voice,
the earth melted.

46:7 The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge.
Selah.

46:8 Come, behold the works of the LORD, what desolations he hath made
in the earth.

46:9 He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth; he breaketh
the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he burneth the chariot in
the fire.

46:10 Be still, and know that I am God: I will be exalted among the
heathen, I will be exalted in the earth.

46:11 The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge.
Selah.



47:1 O clap your hands, all ye people; shout unto God with the voice
of triumph.

47:2 For the LORD most high is terrible; he is a great King over all
the earth.

47:3 He shall subdue the people under us, and the nations under our
feet.

47:4 He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob
whom he loved. Selah.

47:5 God is gone up with a shout, the LORD with the sound of a
trumpet.

47:6 Sing praises to God, sing praises: sing praises unto our King,
sing praises.

47:7 For God is the King of all the earth: sing ye praises with
understanding.

47:8 God reigneth over the heathen: God sitteth upon the throne of his
holiness.

47:9 The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people
of the God of Abraham: for the shields of the earth belong unto God:
he is greatly exalted.



48:1 Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised in the city of our
God, in the mountain of his holiness.

48:2 Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is mount
Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great King.

48:3 God is known in her palaces for a refuge.

48:4 For, lo, the kings were assembled, they passed by together.

48:5 They saw it, and so they marvelled; they were troubled, and
hasted away.

48:6 Fear took hold upon them there, and pain, as of a woman in
travail.

48:7 Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind.

48:8 As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of
hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever. Selah.

48:9 We have thought of thy lovingkindness, O God, in the midst of thy
temple.

48:10 According to thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of
the earth: thy right hand is full of righteousness.

48:11 Let mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad,
because of thy judgments.

48:12 Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers
thereof.

48:13 Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may
tell it to the generation following.

48:14 For this God is our God for ever and ever: he will be our guide
even unto death.



49:1 Hear this, all ye people; give ear, all ye inhabitants of the
world:

49:2 Both low and high, rich and poor, together.

49:3 My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the meditation of my heart
shall be of understanding.

49:4 I will incline mine ear to a parable: I will open my dark saying
upon the harp.

49:5 Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of
my heels shall compass me about?

49:6 They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the
multitude of their riches;

49:7 None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God
a ransom for him:

49:8 (For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth for
ever:)

49:9 That he should still live for ever, and not see corruption.

49:10 For he seeth that wise men die, likewise the fool and the
brutish person perish, and leave their wealth to others.

49:11 Their inward thought is, that their houses shall continue for
ever, and their dwelling places to all generations; they call their
lands after their own names.

49:12 Nevertheless man being in honour abideth not: he is like the
beasts that perish.

49:13 This their way is their folly: yet their posterity approve their
sayings. Selah.

49:14 Like sheep they are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them;
and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and
their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling.

49:15 But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave: for he
shall receive me. Selah.

49:16 Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his
house is increased;

49:17 For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away: his glory shall
not descend after him.

49:18 Though while he lived he blessed his soul: and men will praise
thee, when thou doest well to thyself.

49:19 He shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall never
see light.

49:20 Man that is in honour, and understandeth not, is like the beasts
that perish.



50:1 The mighty God, even the LORD, hath spoken, and called the earth
from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof.

50:2 Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined.

50:3 Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall
devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him.

50:4 He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that
he may judge his people.

50:5 Gather my saints together unto me; those that have made a
covenant with me by sacrifice.

50:6 And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is judge
himself. Selah.

50:7 Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify
against thee: I am God, even thy God.

50:8 I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt
offerings, to have been continually before me.

50:9 I will take no bullock out of thy house, nor he goats out of thy
folds.

50:10 For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a
thousand hills.

50:11 I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of
the field are mine.

50:12 If I were hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world is mine,
and the fulness thereof.

50:13 Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?

50:14 Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the most
High:

50:15 And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and
thou shalt glorify me.

50:16 But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare
my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth?

50:17 Seeing thou hatest instruction, and casteth my words behind
thee.

50:18 When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and
hast been partaker with adulterers.

50:19 Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit.

50:20 Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest
thine own mother's son.

50:21 These things hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou thoughtest
that I was altogether such an one as thyself: but I will reprove thee,
and set them in order before thine eyes.

50:22 Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear you in
pieces, and there be none to deliver.

50:23 Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth
his conversation aright will I shew the salvation of God.



51:1 Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness:
according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my
transgressions.

51:2 Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.

51:3 For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before
me.

51:4 Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in thy
sight: that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be
clear when thou judgest.

51:5 Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother
conceive me.

51:6 Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the
hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom.

51:7 Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall
be whiter than snow.

51:8 Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which thou hast
broken may rejoice.

51:9 Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.

51:10 Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit
within me.

51:11 Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit
from me.

51:12 Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy
free spirit.

51:13 Then will I teach transgressors thy ways; and sinners shall be
converted unto thee.

51:14 Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, thou God of my
salvation: and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness.

51:15 O Lord, open thou my lips; and my mouth shall shew forth thy
praise.

51:16 For thou desirest not sacrifice; else would I give it: thou
delightest not in burnt offering.

51:17 The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a
contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.

51:18 Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: build thou the walls of
Jerusalem.

51:19 Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness,
with burnt offering and whole burnt offering: then shall they offer
bullocks upon thine altar.



52:1 Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? the goodness
of God endureth continually.

52:2 The tongue deviseth mischiefs; like a sharp razor, working
deceitfully.

52:3 Thou lovest evil more than good; and lying rather than to speak
righteousness. Selah.

52:4 Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue.

52:5 God shall likewise destroy thee for ever, he shall take thee
away, and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of
the land of the living. Selah.

52:6 The righteous also shall see, and fear, and shall laugh at him:

52:7 Lo, this is the man that made not God his strength; but trusted
in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himself in his
wickedness.

52:8 But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in
the mercy of God for ever and ever.

52:9 I will praise thee for ever, because thou hast done it: and I
will wait on thy name; for it is good before thy saints.



53:1 The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt are
they, and have done abominable iniquity: there is none that doeth
good.

53:2 God looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if
there were any that did understand, that did seek God.

53:3 Every one of them is gone back: they are altogether become
filthy; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

53:4 Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people
as they eat bread: they have not called upon God.

53:5 There were they in great fear, where no fear was: for God hath
scattered the bones of him that encampeth against thee: thou hast put
them to shame, because God hath despised them.

53:6 Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! When God
bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and
Israel shall be glad.



54:1 Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength.

54:2 Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth.

54:3 For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after
my soul: they have not set God before them. Selah.

54:4 Behold, God is mine helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my
soul.

54:5 He shall reward evil unto mine enemies: cut them off in thy
truth.

54:6 I will freely sacrifice unto thee: I will praise thy name, O
LORD; for it is good.

54:7 For he hath delivered me out of all trouble: and mine eye hath
seen his desire upon mine enemies.



55:1 Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my
supplication.

55:2 Attend unto me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a
noise;

55:3 Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of
the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me.

55:4 My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are
fallen upon me.

55:5 Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath
overwhelmed me.

55:6 And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly
away, and be at rest.

55:7 Lo, then would I wander far off, and remain in the wilderness.
Selah.

55:8 I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest.

55:9 Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues: for I have seen
violence and strife in the city.

55:10 Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: mischief
also and sorrow are in the midst of it.

55:11 Wickedness is in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not
from her streets.

55:12 For it was not an enemy that reproached me; then I could have
borne it: neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself
against me; then I would have hid myself from him:

55:13 But it was thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and mine
acquaintance.

55:14 We took sweet counsel together, and walked unto the house of God
in company.

55:15 Let death seize upon them, and let them go down quick into hell:
for wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them.

55:16 As for me, I will call upon God; and the LORD shall save me.

55:17 Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud:
and he shall hear my voice.

55:18 He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was
against me: for there were many with me.

55:19 God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that abideth of old.

Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God.

55:20 He hath put forth his hands against such as be at peace with
him: he hath broken his covenant.

55:21 The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in
his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords.

55:22 Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and he shall sustain thee: he
shall never suffer the righteous to be moved.

55:23 But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of
destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their
days; but I will trust in thee.



56:1 Be merciful unto me, O God: for man would swallow me up; he
fighting daily oppresseth me.

56:2 Mine enemies would daily swallow me up: for they be many that
fight against me, O thou most High.

56:3 What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee.

56:4 In God I will praise his word, in God I have put my trust; I will
not fear what flesh can do unto me.

56:5 Every day they wrest my words: all their thoughts are against me
for evil.

56:6 They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they mark
my steps, when they wait for my soul.

56:7 Shall they escape by iniquity? in thine anger cast down the
people, O God.

56:8 Thou tellest my wanderings: put thou my tears into thy bottle:
are they not in thy book?

56:9 When I cry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn back: this I
know; for God is for me.

56:10 In God will I praise his word: in the LORD will I praise his
word.

56:11 In God have I put my trust: I will not be afraid what man can do
unto me.

56:12 Thy vows are upon me, O God: I will render praises unto thee.

56:13 For thou hast delivered my soul from death: wilt not thou
deliver my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light
of the living?



57:1 Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me: for my soul
trusteth in thee: yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my
refuge, until these calamities be overpast.

57:2 I will cry unto God most high; unto God that performeth all
things for me.

57:3 He shall send from heaven, and save me from the reproach of him
that would swallow me up. Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and
his truth.

57:4 My soul is among lions: and I lie even among them that are set on
fire, even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, and
their tongue a sharp sword.

57:5 Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; let thy glory be above
all the earth.

57:6 They have prepared a net for my steps; my soul is bowed down:
they have digged a pit before me, into the midst whereof they are
fallen themselves. Selah.

57:7 My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give
praise.

57:8 Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake
early.

57:9 I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people: I will sing unto
thee among the nations.

57:10 For thy mercy is great unto the heavens, and thy truth unto the
clouds.

57:11 Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: let thy glory be
above all the earth.



58:1 Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? do ye judge
uprightly, O ye sons of men?

58:2 Yea, in heart ye work wickedness; ye weigh the violence of your
hands in the earth.

58:3 The wicked are estranged from the womb: they go astray as soon as
they be born, speaking lies.

58:4 Their poison is like the poison of a serpent: they are like the
deaf adder that stoppeth her ear;

58:5 Which will not hearken to the voice of charmers, charming never
so wisely.

58:6 Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: break out the great
teeth of the young lions, O LORD.

58:7 Let them melt away as waters which run continually: when he
bendeth his bow to shoot his arrows, let them be as cut in pieces.

58:8 As a snail which melteth, let every one of them pass away: like
the untimely birth of a woman, that they may not see the sun.

58:9 Before your pots can feel the thorns, he shall take them away as
with a whirlwind, both living, and in his wrath.

58:10 The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance: he
shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked.

58:11 So that a man shall say, Verily there is a reward for the
righteous: verily he is a God that judgeth in the earth.



59:1 Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that
rise up against me.

59:2 Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody
men.

59:3 For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered
against me; not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O LORD.

59:4 They run and prepare themselves without my fault: awake to help
me, and behold.

59:5 Thou therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to
visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors.
Selah.

59:6 They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go
round about the city.

59:7 Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords are in their
lips: for who, say they, doth hear?

59:8 But thou, O LORD, shalt laugh at them; thou shalt have all the
heathen in derision.

59:9 Because of his strength will I wait upon thee: for God is my
defence.

59:10 The God of my mercy shall prevent me: God shall let me see my
desire upon mine enemies.

59:11 Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by thy power;
and bring them down, O Lord our shield.

59:12 For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips let them
even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying which they
speak.

59:13 Consume them in wrath, consume them, that they may not be: and
let them know that God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth.
Selah.

59:14 And at evening let them return; and let them make a noise like a
dog, and go round about the city.

59:15 Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not
satisfied.

59:16 But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy
mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the
day of my trouble.

59:17 Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God is my defence,
and the God of my mercy.



60:1 O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast
been displeased; O turn thyself to us again.

60:2 Thou hast made the earth to tremble; thou hast broken it: heal
the breaches thereof; for it shaketh.

60:3 Thou hast shewed thy people hard things: thou hast made us to
drink the wine of astonishment.

60:4 Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be
displayed because of the truth. Selah.

60:5 That thy beloved may be delivered; save with thy right hand, and
hear me.

60:6 God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide
Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.

60:7 Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the
strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;

60:8 Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe: Philistia,
triumph thou because of me.

60:9 Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into
Edom?

60:10 Wilt not thou, O God, which hadst cast us off? and thou, O God,
which didst not go out with our armies?

60:11 Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.

60:12 Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread
down our enemies.



61:1 Hear my cry, O God; attend unto my prayer.

61:2 From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is
overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is higher than I.

61:3 For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the
enemy.

61:4 I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the
covert of thy wings. Selah.

61:5 For thou, O God, hast heard my vows: thou hast given me the
heritage of those that fear thy name.

61:6 Thou wilt prolong the king's life: and his years as many
generations.

61:7 He shall abide before God for ever: O prepare mercy and truth,
which may preserve him.

61:8 So will I sing praise unto thy name for ever, that I may daily
perform my vows.



62:1 Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him cometh my salvation.

62:2 He only is my rock and my salvation; he is my defence; I shall
not be greatly moved.

62:3 How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? ye shall be
slain all of you: as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering
fence.

62:4 They only consult to cast him down from his excellency: they
delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly.
Selah.

62:5 My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation is from him.

62:6 He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defence; I shall
not be moved.

62:7 In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, and
my refuge, is in God.

62:8 Trust in him at all times; ye people, pour out your heart before
him: God is a refuge for us. Selah.

62:9 Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a
lie: to be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than
vanity.

62:10 Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery: if
riches increase, set not your heart upon them.

62:11 God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power
belongeth unto God.

62:12 Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy: for thou renderest to
every man according to his work.



63:1 O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth
for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where
no water is;

63:2 To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the
sanctuary.

63:3 Because thy lovingkindness is better than life, my lips shall
praise thee.

63:4 Thus will I bless thee while I live: I will lift up my hands in
thy name.

63:5 My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness; and my
mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips:

63:6 When I remember thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee in the
night watches.

63:7 Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy
wings will I rejoice.

63:8 My soul followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me.

63:9 But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the
lower parts of the earth.

63:10 They shall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes.

63:11 But the king shall rejoice in God; every one that sweareth by
him shall glory: but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be
stopped.



64:1 Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of
the enemy.

64:2 Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the
insurrection of the workers of iniquity:

64:3 Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot
their arrows, even bitter words:

64:4 That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they
shoot at him, and fear not.

64:5 They encourage themselves in an evil matter: they commune of
laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see them?

64:6 They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search:
both the inward thought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep.

64:7 But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be
wounded.

64:8 So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: all
that see them shall flee away.

64:9 And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for
they shall wisely consider of his doing.

64:10 The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and shall trust in him;
and all the upright in heart shall glory.



65:1 Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the
vow be performed.

65:2 O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come.

65:3 Iniquities prevail against me: as for our transgressions, thou
shalt purge them away.

65:4 Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach
unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with
the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple.

65:5 By terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer us, O God of
our salvation; who art the confidence of all the ends of the earth,
and of them that are afar off upon the sea:

65:6 Which by his strength setteth fast the mountains; being girded
with power:

65:7 Which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves,
and the tumult of the people.

65:8 They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy
tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to
rejoice.

65:9 Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest
it with the river of God, which is full of water: thou preparest them
corn, when thou hast so provided for it.

65:10 Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the
furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the
springing thereof.

65:11 Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop
fatness.

65:12 They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness: and the little
hills rejoice on every side.

65:13 The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are
covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.



66:1 Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands:

66:2 Sing forth the honour of his name: make his praise glorious.

66:3 Say unto God, How terrible art thou in thy works! through the
greatness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto
thee.

66:4 All the earth shall worship thee, and shall sing unto thee; they
shall sing to thy name. Selah.

66:5 Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward
the children of men.

66:6 He turned the sea into dry land: they went through the flood on
foot: there did we rejoice in him.

66:7 He ruleth by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: let
not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah.

66:8 O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to
be heard:

66:9 Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be
moved.

66:10 For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver
is tried.

66:11 Thou broughtest us into the net; thou laidst affliction upon our
loins.

66:12 Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; we went through
fire and through water: but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy
place.

66:13 I will go into thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee
my vows,

66:14 Which my lips have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was
in trouble.

66:15 I will offer unto thee burnt sacrifices of fatlings, with the
incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats. Selah.

66:16 Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he
hath done for my soul.

66:17 I cried unto him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my
tongue.

66:18 If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me:

66:19 But verily God hath heard me; he hath attended to the voice of
my prayer.

66:20 Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his
mercy from me.



67:1 God be merciful unto us, and bless us; and cause his face to
shine upon us; Selah.

67:2 That thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all
nations.

67:3 Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise
thee.

67:4 O let the nations be glad and sing for joy: for thou shalt judge
the people righteously, and govern the nations upon earth. Selah.

67:5 Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise
thee.

67:6 Then shall the earth yield her increase; and God, even our own
God, shall bless us.

67:7 God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall fear him.



68:1 Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that
hate him flee before him.

68:2 As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: as wax melteth
before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.

68:3 But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea,
let them exceedingly rejoice.

68:4 Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth
upon the heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him.

68:5 A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in
his holy habitation.

68:6 God setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which
are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry land.

68:7 O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou didst
march through the wilderness; Selah:

68:8 The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God:
even Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.

68:9 Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst
confirm thine inheritance, when it was weary.

68:10 Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, O God, hast prepared
of thy goodness for the poor.

68:11 The Lord gave the word: great was the company of those that
published it.

68:12 Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home
divided the spoil.

68:13 Though ye have lien among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings
of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.

68:14 When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in
Salmon.

68:15 The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan; an high hill as the
hill of Bashan.

68:16 Why leap ye, ye high hills? this is the hill which God desireth
to dwell in; yea, the LORD will dwell in it for ever.

68:17 The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of
angels: the Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.

68:18 Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive:
thou hast received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also, that
the LORD God might dwell among them.

68:19 Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even
the God of our salvation. Selah.

68:20 He that is our God is the God of salvation; and unto GOD the
Lord belong the issues from death.

68:21 But God shall wound the head of his enemies, and the hairy scalp
of such an one as goeth on still in his trespasses.

68:22 The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring my
people again from the depths of the sea:

68:23 That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of thine enemies, and
the tongue of thy dogs in the same.

68:24 They have seen thy goings, O God; even the goings of my God, my
King, in the sanctuary.

68:25 The singers went before, the players on instruments followed
after; among them were the damsels playing with timbrels.

68:26 Bless ye God in the congregations, even the Lord, from the
fountain of Israel.

68:27 There is little Benjamin with their ruler, the princes of Judah
and their council, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of
Naphtali.

68:28 Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God, that
which thou hast wrought for us.

68:29 Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents
unto thee.

68:30 Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with
the calves of the people, till every one submit himself with pieces of
silver: scatter thou the people that delight in war.

68:31 Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out
her hands unto God.

68:32 Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the
Lord; Selah:

68:33 To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, which were of
old; lo, he doth send out his voice, and that a mighty voice.

68:34 Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency is over Israel, and
his strength is in the clouds.

68:35 O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places: the God of
Israel is he that giveth strength and power unto his people. Blessed
be God.



69:1 Save me, O God; for the waters are come in unto my soul.

69:2 I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing: I am come into
deep waters, where the floods overflow me.

69:3 I am weary of my crying: my throat is dried: mine eyes fail while
I wait for my God.

69:4 They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of mine
head: they that would destroy me, being mine enemies wrongfully, are
mighty: then I restored that which I took not away.

69:5 O God, thou knowest my foolishness; and my sins are not hid from
thee.

69:6 Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord GOD of hosts, be ashamed
for my sake: let not those that seek thee be confounded for my sake, O
God of Israel.

69:7 Because for thy sake I have borne reproach; shame hath covered my
face.

69:8 I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my
mother's children.

69:9 For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up; and the reproaches
of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.

69:10 When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my
reproach.

69:11 I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a proverb to
them.

69:12 They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I was the song
of the drunkards.

69:13 But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O LORD, in an acceptable
time: O God, in the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truth of
thy salvation.

69:14 Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be
delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.

69:15 Let not the waterflood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow
me up, and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.

69:16 Hear me, O LORD; for thy lovingkindness is good: turn unto me
according to the multitude of thy tender mercies.

69:17 And hide not thy face from thy servant; for I am in trouble:
hear me speedily.

69:18 Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it: deliver me because of
mine enemies.

69:19 Thou hast known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonour:
mine adversaries are all before thee.

69:20 Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I
looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for comforters,
but I found none.

69:21 They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave
me vinegar to drink.

69:22 Let their table become a snare before them: and that which
should have been for their welfare, let it become a trap.

69:23 Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their
loins continually to shake.

69:24 Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let thy wrathful anger
take hold of them.

69:25 Let their habitation be desolate; and let none dwell in their
tents.

69:26 For they persecute him whom thou hast smitten; and they talk to
the grief of those whom thou hast wounded.

69:27 Add iniquity unto their iniquity: and let them not come into thy
righteousness.

69:28 Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be
written with the righteous.

69:29 But I am poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O God, set me up
on high.

69:30 I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him
with thanksgiving.

69:31 This also shall please the LORD better than an ox or bullock
that hath horns and hoofs.

69:32 The humble shall see this, and be glad: and your heart shall
live that seek God.

69:33 For the LORD heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners.

69:34 Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and every thing
that moveth therein.

69:35 For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that
they may dwell there, and have it in possession.

69:36 The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that
love his name shall dwell therein.



70:1 Make haste, O God, to deliver me; make haste to help me, O Lord.

70:2 Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul: let
them be turned backward, and put to confusion, that desire my hurt.

70:3 Let them be turned back for a reward of their shame that say,
Aha, aha.

70:4 Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: and let
such as love thy salvation say continually, Let God be magnified.

70:5 But I am poor and needy: make haste unto me, O God: thou art my
help and my deliverer; O LORD, make no tarrying.



71:1 In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust: let me never be put to
confusion.

71:2 Deliver me in thy righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline
thine ear unto me, and save me.

71:3 Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort:
thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my rock and my
fortress.

71:4 Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the
hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.

71:5 For thou art my hope, O Lord GOD: thou art my trust from my
youth.

71:6 By thee have I been holden up from the womb: thou art he that
took me out of my mother's bowels: my praise shall be continually of
thee.

71:7 I am as a wonder unto many; but thou art my strong refuge.

71:8 Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honour all
the day.

71:9 Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my
strength faileth.

71:10 For mine enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my
soul take counsel together,

71:11 Saying, God hath forsaken him: persecute and take him; for there
is none to deliver him.

71:12 O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help.

71:13 Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my
soul; let them be covered with reproach and dishonour that seek my
hurt.

71:14 But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and
more.

71:15 My mouth shall shew forth thy righteousness and thy salvation
all the day; for I know not the numbers thereof.

71:16 I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD: I will make mention
of thy righteousness, even of thine only.

71:17 O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I
declared thy wondrous works.

71:18 Now also when I am old and greyheaded, O God, forsake me not;
until I have shewed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power
to every one that is to come.

71:19 Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high, who hast done great
things: O God, who is like unto thee!

71:20 Thou, which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shalt
quicken me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the
earth.

71:21 Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.

71:22 I will also praise thee with the psaltery, even thy truth, O my
God: unto thee will I sing with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel.

71:23 My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee; and my
soul, which thou hast redeemed.

71:24 My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long:
for they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame, that seek my
hurt.



72:1 Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto
the king's son.

72:2 He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with
judgment.

72:3 The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little
hills, by righteousness.

72:4 He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children
of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor.

72:5 They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure,
throughout all generations.

72:6 He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showers that
water the earth.

72:7 In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace
so long as the moon endureth.

72:8 He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river
unto the ends of the earth.

72:9 They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his
enemies shall lick the dust.

72:10 The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the
kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.

72:11 Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall
serve him.

72:12 For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also,
and him that hath no helper.

72:13 He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of
the needy.

72:14 He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and
precious shall their blood be in his sight.

72:15 And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of
Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; and daily shall
he be praised.

72:16 There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of
the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and they of
the city shall flourish like grass of the earth.

72:17 His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as
long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shall
call him blessed.

72:18 Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only doeth
wondrous things.

72:19 And blessed be his glorious name for ever: and let the whole
earth be filled with his glory; Amen, and Amen.

72:20 The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.



73:1 Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean
heart.

73:2 But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh
slipped.

73:3 For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of
the wicked.

73:4 For there are no bands in their death: but their strength is
firm.

73:5 They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they plagued
like other men.

73:6 Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain; violence
covereth them as a garment.

73:7 Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart
could wish.

73:8 They are corrupt, and speak wickedly concerning oppression: they
speak loftily.

73:9 They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue
walketh through the earth.

73:10 Therefore his people return hither: and waters of a full cup are
wrung out to them.

73:11 And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the
most High?

73:12 Behold, these are the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they
increase in riches.

73:13 Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in
innocency.

73:14 For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every
morning.

73:15 If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend against the
generation of thy children.

73:16 When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me;

73:17 Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then understood I their
end.

73:18 Surely thou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst
them down into destruction.

73:19 How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! they are
utterly consumed with terrors.

73:20 As a dream when one awaketh; so, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou
shalt despise their image.

73:21 Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins.

73:22 So foolish was I, and ignorant: I was as a beast before thee.

73:23 Nevertheless I am continually with thee: thou hast holden me by
my right hand.

73:24 Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me
to glory.

73:25 Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon earth
that I desire beside thee.

73:26 My flesh and my heart faileth: but God is the strength of my
heart, and my portion for ever.

73:27 For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: thou hast
destroyed all them that go a whoring from thee.

73:28 But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust
in the Lord GOD, that I may declare all thy works.



74:1 O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever? why doth thine anger
smoke against the sheep of thy pasture?

74:2 Remember thy congregation, which thou hast purchased of old; the
rod of thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed; this mount Zion,
wherein thou hast dwelt.

74:3 Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; even all that
the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary.

74:4 Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up
their ensigns for signs.

74:5 A man was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon the
thick trees.

74:6 But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes
and hammers.

74:7 They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled by
casting down the dwelling place of thy name to the ground.

74:8 They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they
have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land.

74:9 We see not our signs: there is no more any prophet: neither is
there among us any that knoweth how long.

74:10 O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy
blaspheme thy name for ever?

74:11 Why withdrawest thou thy hand, even thy right hand? pluck it out
of thy bosom.

74:12 For God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the
earth.

74:13 Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the
heads of the dragons in the waters.

74:14 Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to
be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness.

74:15 Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood: thou driedst up
mighty rivers.

74:16 The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared
the light and the sun.

74:17 Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made
summer and winter.

74:18 Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O LORD, and that
the foolish people have blasphemed thy name.

74:19 O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude of
the wicked: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever.

74:20 Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth
are full of the habitations of cruelty.

74:21 O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy
praise thy name.

74:22 Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish
man reproacheth thee daily.

74:23 Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that
rise up against thee increaseth continually.



75:1 Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks:
for that thy name is near thy wondrous works declare.

75:2 When I shall receive the congregation I will judge uprightly.

75:3 The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved: I bear
up the pillars of it. Selah.

75:4 I said unto the fools, Deal not foolishly: and to the wicked,
Lift not up the horn:

75:5 Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff neck.

75:6 For promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west,
nor from the south.

75:7 But God is the judge: he putteth down one, and setteth up
another.

75:8 For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, and the wine is red;
it is full of mixture; and he poureth out of the same: but the dregs
thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink
them.

75:9 But I will declare for ever; I will sing praises to the God of
Jacob.

75:10 All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; but the horns
of the righteous shall be exalted.



76:1 In Judah is God known: his name is great in Israel.

76:2 In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion.

76:3 There brake he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword,
and the battle. Selah.

76:4 Thou art more glorious and excellent than the mountains of prey.

76:5 The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and
none of the men of might have found their hands.

76:6 At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are
cast into a dead sleep.

76:7 Thou, even thou, art to be feared: and who may stand in thy sight
when once thou art angry?

76:8 Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth
feared, and was still,

76:9 When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth.
Selah.

76:10 Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee: the remainder of
wrath shalt thou restrain.

76:11 Vow, and pay unto the LORD your God: let all that be round about
him bring presents unto him that ought to be feared.

76:12 He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the
kings of the earth.



77:1 I cried unto God with my voice, even unto God with my voice; and
he gave ear unto me.

77:2 In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran in the
night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted.

77:3 I remembered God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit
was overwhelmed. Selah.

77:4 Thou holdest mine eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot
speak.

77:5 I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times.

77:6 I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with mine
own heart: and my spirit made diligent search.

77:7 Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no
more?

77:8 Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth his promise fail for
evermore?

77:9 Hath God forgotten to be gracious? hath he in anger shut up his
tender mercies? Selah.

77:10 And I said, This is my infirmity: but I will remember the years
of the right hand of the most High.

77:11 I will remember the works of the LORD: surely I will remember
thy wonders of old.

77:12 I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doings.

77:13 Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary: who is so great a God as
our God?

77:14 Thou art the God that doest wonders: thou hast declared thy
strength among the people.

77:15 Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob
and Joseph. Selah.

77:16 The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee; they were
afraid: the depths also were troubled.

77:17 The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a sound: thine
arrows also went abroad.

77:18 The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven: the lightnings
lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook.

77:19 Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy
footsteps are not known.

77:20 Thou leddest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and
Aaron.



78:1 Give ear, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words
of my mouth.

78:2 I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of
old:

78:3 Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.

78:4 We will not hide them from their children, shewing to the
generation to come the praises of the LORD, and his strength, and his
wonderful works that he hath done.

78:5 For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in
Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them
known to their children:

78:6 That the generation to come might know them, even the children
which should be born; who should arise and declare them to their
children:

78:7 That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works
of God, but keep his commandments:

78:8 And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious
generation; a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose
spirit was not stedfast with God.

78:9 The children of Ephraim, being armed, and carrying bows, turned
back in the day of battle.

78:10 They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his
law;

78:11 And forgat his works, and his wonders that he had shewed them.

78:12 Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers, in the
land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.

78:13 He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through; and he made
the waters to stand as an heap.

78:14 In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night
with a light of fire.

78:15 He clave the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out
of the great depths.

78:16 He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to
run down like rivers.

78:17 And they sinned yet more against him by provoking the most High
in the wilderness.

78:18 And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their
lust.

78:19 Yea, they spake against God; they said, Can God furnish a table
in the wilderness?

78:20 Behold, he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out, and the
streams overflowed; can he give bread also? can he provide flesh for
his people?

78:21 Therefore the LORD heard this, and was wroth: so a fire was
kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel;

78:22 Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his
salvation:

78:23 Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the
doors of heaven,

78:24 And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given them
of the corn of heaven.

78:25 Man did eat angels' food: he sent them meat to the full.

78:26 He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his power
he brought in the south wind.

78:27 He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowls like
as the sand of the sea:

78:28 And he let it fall in the midst of their camp, round about their
habitations.

78:29 So they did eat, and were well filled: for he gave them their
own desire;

78:30 They were not estranged from their lust. But while their meat
was yet in their mouths,

78:31 The wrath of God came upon them, and slew the fattest of them,
and smote down the chosen men of Israel.

78:32 For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his
wondrous works.

78:33 Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years
in trouble.

78:34 When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and
enquired early after God.

78:35 And they remembered that God was their rock, and the high God
their redeemer.

78:36 Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they
lied unto him with their tongues.

78:37 For their heart was not right with him, neither were they
stedfast in his covenant.

78:38 But he, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, and
destroyed them not: yea, many a time turned he his anger away, and did
not stir up all his wrath.

78:39 For he remembered that they were but flesh; a wind that passeth
away, and cometh not again.

78:40 How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and grieve him
in the desert!

78:41 Yea, they turned back and tempted God, and limited the Holy One
of Israel.

78:42 They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he delivered them
from the enemy.

78:43 How he had wrought his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the
field of Zoan.

78:44 And had turned their rivers into blood; and their floods, that
they could not drink.

78:45 He sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them;
and frogs, which destroyed them.

78:46 He gave also their increase unto the caterpiller, and their
labour unto the locust.

78:47 He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycomore trees
with frost.

78:48 He gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to
hot thunderbolts.

78:49 He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and
indignation, and trouble, by sending evil angels among them.

78:50 He made a way to his anger; he spared not their soul from death,
but gave their life over to the pestilence;

78:51 And smote all the firstborn in Egypt; the chief of their
strength in the tabernacles of Ham:

78:52 But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them
in the wilderness like a flock.

78:53 And he led them on safely, so that they feared not: but the sea
overwhelmed their enemies.

78:54 And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this
mountain, which his right hand had purchased.

78:55 He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them an
inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their
tents.

78:56 Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God, and kept not
his testimonies:

78:57 But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers: they
were turned aside like a deceitful bow.

78:58 For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved
him to jealousy with their graven images.

78:59 When God heard this, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel:

78:60 So that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent which he
placed among men;

78:61 And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into
the enemy's hand.

78:62 He gave his people over also unto the sword; and was wroth with
his inheritance.

78:63 The fire consumed their young men; and their maidens were not
given to marriage.

78:64 Their priests fell by the sword; and their widows made no
lamentation.

78:65 Then the LORD awaked as one out of sleep, and like a mighty man
that shouteth by reason of wine.

78:66 And he smote his enemies in the hinder parts: he put them to a
perpetual reproach.

78:67 Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the
tribe of Ephraim:

78:68 But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved.

78:69 And he built his sanctuary like high palaces, like the earth
which he hath established for ever.

78:70 He chose David also his servant, and took him from the
sheepfolds:

78:71 From following the ewes great with young he brought him to feed
Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance.

78:72 So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart; and
guided them by the skilfulness of his hands.



79:1 O God, the heathen are come into thine inheritance; thy holy
temple have they defiled; they have laid Jerusalem on heaps.

79:2 The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto
the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of
the earth.

79:3 Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; and
there was none to bury them.

79:4 We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision
to them that are round about us.

79:5 How long, LORD? wilt thou be angry for ever? shall thy jealousy
burn like fire?

79:6 Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and
upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name.

79:7 For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place.

79:8 O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender
mercies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low.

79:9 Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name: and
deliver us, and purge away our sins, for thy name's sake.

79:10 Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God? let him be
known among the heathen in our sight by the revenging of the blood of
thy servants which is shed.

79:11 Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee; according to
the greatness of thy power preserve thou those that are appointed to
die;

79:12 And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into their bosom their
reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord.

79:13 So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks
for ever: we will shew forth thy praise to all generations.



80:1 Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a
flock; thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth.

80:2 Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength,
and come and save us.

80:3 Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall
be saved.

80:4 O LORD God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the
prayer of thy people?

80:5 Thou feedest them with the bread of tears; and givest them tears
to drink in great measure.

80:6 Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbours: and our enemies
laugh among themselves.

80:7 Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and
we shall be saved.

80:8 Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the
heathen, and planted it.

80:9 Thou preparedst room before it, and didst cause it to take deep
root, and it filled the land.

80:10 The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs
thereof were like the goodly cedars.

80:11 She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the
river.

80:12 Why hast thou then broken down her hedges, so that all they
which pass by the way do pluck her?

80:13 The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of
the field doth devour it.

80:14 Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heaven,
and behold, and visit this vine;

80:15 And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the
branch that thou madest strong for thyself.

80:16 It is burned with fire, it is cut down: they perish at the
rebuke of thy countenance.

80:17 Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the son of
man whom thou madest strong for thyself.

80:18 So will not we go back from thee: quicken us, and we will call
upon thy name.

80:19 Turn us again, O LORD God of hosts, cause thy face to shine; and
we shall be saved.



81:1 Sing aloud unto God our strength: make a joyful noise unto the
God of Jacob.

81:2 Take a psalm, and bring hither the timbrel, the pleasant harp
with the psaltery.

81:3 Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed, on
our solemn feast day.

81:4 For this was a statute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob.

81:5 This he ordained in Joseph for a testimony, when he went out
through the land of Egypt: where I heard a language that I understood
not.

81:6 I removed his shoulder from the burden: his hands were delivered
from the pots.

81:7 Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee; I answered thee
in the secret place of thunder: I proved thee at the waters of
Meribah.

Selah.

81:8 Hear, O my people, and I will testify unto thee: O Israel, if
thou wilt hearken unto me;

81:9 There shall no strange god be in thee; neither shalt thou worship
any strange god.

81:10 I am the LORD thy God, which brought thee out of the land of
Egypt: open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it.

81:11 But my people would not hearken to my voice; and Israel would
none of me.

81:12 So I gave them up unto their own hearts' lust: and they walked
in their own counsels.

81:13 Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked
in my ways!

81:14 I should soon have subdued their enemies, and turned my hand
against their adversaries.

81:15 The haters of the LORD should have submitted themselves unto
him: but their time should have endured for ever.

81:16 He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat: and
with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee.



82:1 God standeth in the congregation of the mighty; he judgeth among
the gods.

82:2 How long will ye judge unjustly, and accept the persons of the
wicked? Selah.

82:3 Defend the poor and fatherless: do justice to the afflicted and
needy.

82:4 Deliver the poor and needy: rid them out of the hand of the
wicked.

82:5 They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in
darkness: all the foundations of the earth are out of course.

82:6 I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most
High.

82:7 But ye shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes.

82:8 Arise, O God, judge the earth: for thou shalt inherit all
nations.



83:1 Keep not thou silence, O God: hold not thy peace, and be not
still, O God.

83:2 For, lo, thine enemies make a tumult: and they that hate thee
have lifted up the head.

83:3 They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted
against thy hidden ones.

83:4 They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a
nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance.

83:5 For they have consulted together with one consent: they are
confederate against thee:

83:6 The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the
Hagarenes;

83:7 Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the
inhabitants of Tyre;

83:8 Assur also is joined with them: they have holpen the children of
Lot.

Selah.

83:9 Do unto them as unto the Midianites; as to Sisera, as to Jabin,
at the brook of Kison:

83:10 Which perished at Endor: they became as dung for the earth.

83:11 Make their nobles like Oreb, and like Zeeb: yea, all their
princes as Zebah, and as Zalmunna:

83:12 Who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in
possession.

83:13 O my God, make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the
wind.

83:14 As the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the
mountains on fire;

83:15 So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with
thy storm.

83:16 Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name, O
LORD.

83:17 Let them be confounded and troubled for ever; yea, let them be
put to shame, and perish:

83:18 That men may know that thou, whose name alone is JEHOVAH, art
the most high over all the earth.



84:1 How amiable are thy tabernacles, O LORD of hosts!

84:2 My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the LORD:
my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God.

84:3 Yea, the sparrow hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for
herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O LORD of
hosts, my King, and my God.

84:4 Blessed are they that dwell in thy house: they will be still
praising thee. Selah.

84:5 Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee; in whose heart are
the ways of them.

84:6 Who passing through the valley of Baca make it a well; the rain
also filleth the pools.

84:7 They go from strength to strength, every one of them in Zion
appeareth before God.

84:8 O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer: give ear, O God of Jacob.
Selah.

84:9 Behold, O God our shield, and look upon the face of thine
anointed.

84:10 For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather
be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of
wickedness.

84:11 For the LORD God is a sun and shield: the LORD will give grace
and glory: no good thing will he withhold from them that walk
uprightly.

84:12 O LORD of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.



85:1 Lord, thou hast been favourable unto thy land: thou hast brought
back the captivity of Jacob.

85:2 Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered
all their sin. Selah.

85:3 Thou hast taken away all thy wrath: thou hast turned thyself from
the fierceness of thine anger.

85:4 Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us
to cease.

85:5 Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? wilt thou draw out thine
anger to all generations?

85:6 Wilt thou not revive us again: that thy people may rejoice in
thee?

85:7 Shew us thy mercy, O LORD, and grant us thy salvation.

85:8 I will hear what God the LORD will speak: for he will speak peace
unto his people, and to his saints: but let them not turn again to
folly.

85:9 Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him; that glory may
dwell in our land.

85:10 Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have
kissed each other.

85:11 Truth shall spring out of the earth; and righteousness shall
look down from heaven.

85:12 Yea, the LORD shall give that which is good; and our land shall
yield her increase.

85:13 Righteousness shall go before him; and shall set us in the way
of his steps.



86:1 Bow down thine ear, O LORD, hear me: for I am poor and needy.

86:2 Preserve my soul; for I am holy: O thou my God, save thy servant
that trusteth in thee.

86:3 Be merciful unto me, O Lord: for I cry unto thee daily.

86:4 Rejoice the soul of thy servant: for unto thee, O Lord, do I lift
up my soul.

86:5 For thou, Lord, art good, and ready to forgive; and plenteous in
mercy unto all them that call upon thee.

86:6 Give ear, O LORD, unto my prayer; and attend to the voice of my
supplications.

86:7 In the day of my trouble I will call upon thee: for thou wilt
answer me.

86:8 Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord; neither are
there any works like unto thy works.

86:9 All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before
thee, O Lord; and shall glorify thy name.

86:10 For thou art great, and doest wondrous things: thou art God
alone.

86:11 Teach me thy way, O LORD; I will walk in thy truth: unite my
heart to fear thy name.

86:12 I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart: and I will
glorify thy name for evermore.

86:13 For great is thy mercy toward me: and thou hast delivered my
soul from the lowest hell.

86:14 O God, the proud are risen against me, and the assemblies of
violent men have sought after my soul; and have not set thee before
them.

86:15 But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, and gracious,
long suffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth.

86:16 O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me; give thy strength unto
thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid.

86:17 Shew me a token for good; that they which hate me may see it,
and be ashamed: because thou, LORD, hast holpen me, and comforted me.



87:1 His foundation is in the holy mountains.

87:2 The LORD loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of
Jacob.

87:3 Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God. Selah.

87:4 I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon to them that know me:
behold Philistia, and Tyre, with Ethiopia; this man was born there.

87:5 And of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her:
and the highest himself shall establish her.

87:6 The LORD shall count, when he writeth up the people, that this
man was born there. Selah.

87:7 As well the singers as the players on instruments shall be there:
all my springs are in thee.



88:1 O lord God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before
thee:

88:2 Let my prayer come before thee: incline thine ear unto my cry;

88:3 For my soul is full of troubles: and my life draweth nigh unto
the grave.

88:4 I am counted with them that go down into the pit: I am as a man
that hath no strength:

88:5 Free among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, whom
thou rememberest no more: and they are cut off from thy hand.

88:6 Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, in the deeps.

88:7 Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted me with all
thy waves. Selah.

88:8 Thou hast put away mine acquaintance far from me; thou hast made
me an abomination unto them: I am shut up, and I cannot come forth.

88:9 Mine eye mourneth by reason of affliction: LORD, I have called
daily upon thee, I have stretched out my hands unto thee.

88:10 Wilt thou shew wonders to the dead? shall the dead arise and
praise thee? Selah.

88:11 Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave? or thy
faithfulness in destruction?

88:12 Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in
the land of forgetfulness?

88:13 But unto thee have I cried, O LORD; and in the morning shall my
prayer prevent thee.

88:14 LORD, why castest thou off my soul? why hidest thou thy face
from me?

88:15 I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up: while I suffer
thy terrors I am distracted.

88:16 Thy fierce wrath goeth over me; thy terrors have cut me off.

88:17 They came round about me daily like water; they compassed me
about together.

88:18 Lover and friend hast thou put far from me, and mine
acquaintance into darkness.



89:1 I will sing of the mercies of the LORD for ever: with my mouth
will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations.

89:2 For I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: thy
faithfulness shalt thou establish in the very heavens.

89:3 I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my
servant,

89:4 Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne to
all generations. Selah.

89:5 And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O LORD: thy
faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints.

89:6 For who in the heaven can be compared unto the LORD? who among
the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the LORD?

89:7 God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to
be had in reverence of all them that are about him.

89:8 O LORD God of hosts, who is a strong LORD like unto thee? or to
thy faithfulness round about thee?

89:9 Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when the waves thereof arise,
thou stillest them.

89:10 Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain; thou
hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong arm.

89:11 The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine: as for the world
and the fulness thereof, thou hast founded them.

89:12 The north and the south thou hast created them: Tabor and Hermon
shall rejoice in thy name.

89:13 Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand, and high is thy
right hand.

89:14 Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne: mercy and
truth shall go before thy face.

89:15 Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: they shall
walk, O LORD, in the light of thy countenance.

89:16 In thy name shall they rejoice all the day: and in thy
righteousness shall they be exalted.

89:17 For thou art the glory of their strength: and in thy favour our
horn shall be exalted.

89:18 For the LORD is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is our
king.

89:19 Then thou spakest in vision to thy holy one, and saidst, I have
laid help upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of
the people.

89:20 I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed
him:

89:21 With whom my hand shall be established: mine arm also shall
strengthen him.

89:22 The enemy shall not exact upon him; nor the son of wickedness
afflict him.

89:23 And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them
that hate him.

89:24 But my faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him: and in my
name shall his horn be exalted.

89:25 I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the
rivers.

89:26 He shall cry unto me, Thou art my father, my God, and the rock
of my salvation.

89:27 Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the
earth.

89:28 My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall
stand fast with him.

89:29 His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as
the days of heaven.

89:30 If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments;

89:31 If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments;

89:32 Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their
iniquity with stripes.

89:33 Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him,
nor suffer my faithfulness to fail.

89:34 My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone
out of my lips.

89:35 Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David.

89:36 His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before
me.

89:37 It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful
witness in heaven. Selah.

89:38 But thou hast cast off and abhorred, thou hast been wroth with
thine anointed.

89:39 Thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant: thou hast
profaned his crown by casting it to the ground.

89:40 Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought his
strong holds to ruin.

89:41 All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a reproach to his
neighbours.

89:42 Thou hast set up the right hand of his adversaries; thou hast
made all his enemies to rejoice.

89:43 Thou hast also turned the edge of his sword, and hast not made
him to stand in the battle.

89:44 Thou hast made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to
the ground.

89:45 The days of his youth hast thou shortened: thou hast covered him
with shame. Selah.

89:46 How long, LORD? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy wrath
burn like fire?

89:47 Remember how short my time is: wherefore hast thou made all men
in vain?

89:48 What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? shall he
deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah.

89:49 Lord, where are thy former lovingkindnesses, which thou swarest
unto David in thy truth?

89:50 Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants; how I do bear in
my bosom the reproach of all the mighty people;

89:51 Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O LORD; wherewith they
have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed.

89:52 Blessed be the LORD for evermore. Amen, and Amen.



90:1 Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations.

90:2 Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst
formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting,
thou art God.

90:3 Thou turnest man to destruction; and sayest, Return, ye children
of men.

90:4 For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is
past, and as a watch in the night.

90:5 Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are as a sleep: in
the morning they are like grass which groweth up.

90:6 In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; in the evening it
is cut down, and withereth.

90:7 For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we
troubled.

90:8 Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the
light of thy countenance.

90:9 For all our days are passed away in thy wrath: we spend our years
as a tale that is told.

90:10 The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by
reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength
labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away.

90:11 Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy
fear, so is thy wrath.

90:12 So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts
unto wisdom.

90:13 Return, O LORD, how long? and let it repent thee concerning thy
servants.

90:14 O satisfy us early with thy mercy; that we may rejoice and be
glad all our days.

90:15 Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted
us, and the years wherein we have seen evil.

90:16 Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their
children.

90:17 And let the beauty of the LORD our God be upon us: and establish
thou the work of our hands upon us; yea, the work of our hands
establish thou it.



91:1 He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide
under the shadow of the Almighty.

91:2 I will say of the LORD, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God;
in him will I trust.

91:3 Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and
from the noisome pestilence.

91:4 He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt
thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler.

91:5 Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the
arrow that flieth by day;

91:6 Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the
destruction that wasteth at noonday.

91:7 A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right
hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.

91:8 Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the
wicked.

91:9 Because thou hast made the LORD, which is my refuge, even the
most High, thy habitation;

91:10 There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come
nigh thy dwelling.

91:11 For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in
all thy ways.

91:12 They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot
against a stone.

91:13 Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the
dragon shalt thou trample under feet.

91:14 Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver
him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name.

91:15 He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him
in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him.

91:16 With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.



92:1 It is a good thing to give thanks unto the Lord, and to sing
praises unto thy name, O most High:

92:2 To shew forth thy lovingkindness in the morning, and thy
faithfulness every night,

92:3 Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the psaltery; upon
the harp with a solemn sound.

92:4 For thou, LORD, hast made me glad through thy work: I will
triumph in the works of thy hands.

92:5 O LORD, how great are thy works! and thy thoughts are very deep.

92:6 A brutish man knoweth not; neither doth a fool understand this.

92:7 When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of
iniquity do flourish; it is that they shall be destroyed for ever:

92:8 But thou, LORD, art most high for evermore.

92:9 For, lo, thine enemies, O LORD, for, lo, thine enemies shall
perish; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.

92:10 But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I
shall be anointed with fresh oil.

92:11 Mine eye also shall see my desire on mine enemies, and mine ears
shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up against me.

92:12 The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow
like a cedar in Lebanon.

92:13 Those that be planted in the house of the LORD shall flourish in
the courts of our God.

92:14 They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat
and flourishing;

92:15 To shew that the LORD is upright: he is my rock, and there is no
unrighteousness in him.



93:1 The LORD reigneth, he is clothed with majesty; the LORD is
clothed with strength, wherewith he hath girded himself: the world
also is stablished, that it cannot be moved.

93:2 Thy throne is established of old: thou art from everlasting.

93:3 The floods have lifted up, O LORD, the floods have lifted up
their voice; the floods lift up their waves.

93:4 The LORD on high is mightier than the noise of many waters, yea,
than the mighty waves of the sea.

93:5 Thy testimonies are very sure: holiness becometh thine house, O
LORD, for ever.



94:1 O Lord God, to whom vengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance
belongeth, shew thyself.

94:2 Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth: render a reward to the
proud.

94:3 LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked
triumph?

94:4 How long shall they utter and speak hard things? and all the
workers of iniquity boast themselves?

94:5 They break in pieces thy people, O LORD, and afflict thine
heritage.

94:6 They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless.

94:7 Yet they say, The LORD shall not see, neither shall the God of
Jacob regard it.

94:8 Understand, ye brutish among the people: and ye fools, when will
ye be wise?

94:9 He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the
eye, shall he not see?

94:10 He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he that
teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know?

94:11 The LORD knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are vanity.

94:12 Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O LORD, and teachest
him out of thy law;

94:13 That thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, until
the pit be digged for the wicked.

94:14 For the LORD will not cast off his people, neither will he
forsake his inheritance.

94:15 But judgment shall return unto righteousness: and all the
upright in heart shall follow it.

94:16 Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? or who will stand
up for me against the workers of iniquity?

94:17 Unless the LORD had been my help, my soul had almost dwelt in
silence.

94:18 When I said, My foot slippeth; thy mercy, O LORD, held me up.

94:19 In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy comforts delight
my soul.

94:20 Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which
frameth mischief by a law?

94:21 They gather themselves together against the soul of the
righteous, and condemn the innocent blood.

94:22 But the LORD is my defence; and my God is the rock of my refuge.

94:23 And he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut
them off in their own wickedness; yea, the LORD our God shall cut them
off.



95:1 O come, let us sing unto the LORD: let us make a joyful noise to
the rock of our salvation.

95:2 Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a
joyful noise unto him with psalms.

95:3 For the LORD is a great God, and a great King above all gods.

95:4 In his hand are the deep places of the earth: the strength of the
hills is his also.

95:5 The sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry
land.

95:6 O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the LORD
our maker.

95:7 For he is our God; and we are the people of his pasture, and the
sheep of his hand. To day if ye will hear his voice,

95:8 Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, and as in the day
of temptation in the wilderness:

95:9 When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work.

95:10 Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said,
It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my
ways:

95:11 Unto whom I sware in my wrath that they should not enter into my
rest.



96:1 O sing unto the LORD a new song: sing unto the LORD, all the
earth.

96:2 Sing unto the LORD, bless his name; shew forth his salvation from
day to day.

96:3 Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all
people.

96:4 For the LORD is great, and greatly to be praised: he is to be
feared above all gods.

96:5 For all the gods of the nations are idols: but the LORD made the
heavens.

96:6 Honour and majesty are before him: strength and beauty are in his
sanctuary.

96:7 Give unto the LORD, O ye kindreds of the people, give unto the
LORD glory and strength.

96:8 Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name: bring an
offering, and come into his courts.

96:9 O worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness: fear before him,
all the earth.

96:10 Say among the heathen that the LORD reigneth: the world also
shall be established that it shall not be moved: he shall judge the
people righteously.

96:11 Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea
roar, and the fulness thereof.

96:12 Let the field be joyful, and all that is therein: then shall all
the trees of the wood rejoice

96:13 Before the LORD: for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the
earth: he shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people
with his truth.



97:1 The LORD reigneth; let the earth rejoice; let the multitude of
isles be glad thereof.

97:2 Clouds and darkness are round about him: righteousness and
judgment are the habitation of his throne.

97:3 A fire goeth before him, and burneth up his enemies round about.

97:4 His lightnings enlightened the world: the earth saw, and
trembled.

97:5 The hills melted like wax at the presence of the LORD, at the
presence of the Lord of the whole earth.

97:6 The heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his
glory.

97:7 Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast
themselves of idols: worship him, all ye gods.

97:8 Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced
because of thy judgments, O LORD.

97:9 For thou, LORD, art high above all the earth: thou art exalted
far above all gods.

97:10 Ye that love the LORD, hate evil: he preserveth the souls of his
saints; he delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked.

97:11 Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in
heart.

97:12 Rejoice in the LORD, ye righteous; and give thanks at the
remembrance of his holiness.



98:1 O sing unto the LORD a new song; for he hath done marvellous
things: his right hand, and his holy arm, hath gotten him the victory.

98:2 The LORD hath made known his salvation: his righteousness hath he
openly shewed in the sight of the heathen.

98:3 He hath remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of
Israel: all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.

98:4 Make a joyful noise unto the LORD, all the earth: make a loud
noise, and rejoice, and sing praise.

98:5 Sing unto the LORD with the harp; with the harp, and the voice of
a psalm.

98:6 With trumpets and sound of cornet make a joyful noise before the
LORD, the King.

98:7 Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they
that dwell therein.

98:8 Let the floods clap their hands: let the hills be joyful together

98:9 Before the LORD; for he cometh to judge the earth: with
righteousness shall he judge the world, and the people with equity.



99:1 The LORD reigneth; let the people tremble: he sitteth between the
cherubims; let the earth be moved.

99:2 The LORD is great in Zion; and he is high above all the people.

99:3 Let them praise thy great and terrible name; for it is holy.

99:4 The king's strength also loveth judgment; thou dost establish
equity, thou executest judgment and righteousness in Jacob.

99:5 Exalt ye the LORD our God, and worship at his footstool; for he
is holy.

99:6 Moses and Aaron among his priests, and Samuel among them that
call upon his name; they called upon the LORD, and he answered them.

99:7 He spake unto them in the cloudy pillar: they kept his
testimonies, and the ordinance that he gave them.

99:8 Thou answeredst them, O LORD our God: thou wast a God that
forgavest them, though thou tookest vengeance of their inventions.

99:9 Exalt the LORD our God, and worship at his holy hill; for the
LORD our God is holy.



100:1 Make a joyful noise unto the LORD, all ye lands.

100:2 Serve the LORD with gladness: come before his presence with
singing.

100:3 Know ye that the LORD he is God: it is he that hath made us, and
not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.

100:4 Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with
praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name.

100:5 For the LORD is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth
endureth to all generations.



101:1 I will sing of mercy and judgment: unto thee, O LORD, will I
sing.

101:2 I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. O when wilt thou
come unto me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart.

101:3 I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes: I hate the work of
them that turn aside; it shall not cleave to me.

101:4 A froward heart shall depart from me: I will not know a wicked
person.

101:5 Whoso privily slandereth his neighbour, him will I cut off: him
that hath an high look and a proud heart will not I suffer.

101:6 Mine eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land, that they may
dwell with me: he that walketh in a perfect way, he shall serve me.

101:7 He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house: he that
telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight.

101:8 I will early destroy all the wicked of the land; that I may cut
off all wicked doers from the city of the LORD.



102:1 Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry come unto thee.

102:2 Hide not thy face from me in the day when I am in trouble;
incline thine ear unto me: in the day when I call answer me speedily.

102:3 For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as
an hearth.

102:4 My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget
to eat my bread.

102:5 By reason of the voice of my groaning my bones cleave to my
skin.

102:6 I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the
desert.

102:7 I watch, and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top.

102:8 Mine enemies reproach me all the day; and they that are mad
against me are sworn against me.

102:9 For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with
weeping.

102:10 Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast
lifted me up, and cast me down.

102:11 My days are like a shadow that declineth; and I am withered
like grass.

102:12 But thou, O LORD, shall endure for ever; and thy remembrance
unto all generations.

102:13 Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Zion: for the time to
favour her, yea, the set time, is come.

102:14 For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the
dust thereof.

102:15 So the heathen shall fear the name of the LORD, and all the
kings of the earth thy glory.

102:16 When the LORD shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his
glory.

102:17 He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise
their prayer.

102:18 This shall be written for the generation to come: and the
people which shall be created shall praise the LORD.

102:19 For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from
heaven did the LORD behold the earth;

102:20 To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are
appointed to death;

102:21 To declare the name of the LORD in Zion, and his praise in
Jerusalem;

102:22 When the people are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to
serve the LORD.

102:23 He weakened my strength in the way; he shortened my days.

102:24 I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: thy
years are throughout all generations.

102:25 Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the
heavens are the work of thy hands.

102:26 They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: yea, all of them
shall wax old like a garment; as a vesture shalt thou change them, and
they shall be changed:

102:27 But thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end.

102:28 The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed
shall be established before thee.



103:1 Bless the LORD, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his
holy name.

103:2 Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits:

103:3 Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy
diseases;

103:4 Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with
lovingkindness and tender mercies;

103:5 Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things; so that thy youth is
renewed like the eagle's.

103:6 The LORD executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are
oppressed.

103:7 He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of
Israel.

103:8 The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous
in mercy.

103:9 He will not always chide: neither will he keep his anger for
ever.

103:10 He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us
according to our iniquities.

103:11 For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his
mercy toward them that fear him.

103:12 As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our
transgressions from us.

103:13 Like as a father pitieth his children, so the LORD pitieth them
that fear him.

103:14 For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust.

103:15 As for man, his days are as grass: as a flower of the field, so
he flourisheth.

103:16 For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place
thereof shall know it no more.

103:17 But the mercy of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting
upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's
children;

103:18 To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his
commandments to do them.

103:19 The LORD hath prepared his throne in the heavens; and his
kingdom ruleth over all.

103:20 Bless the LORD, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do
his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word.

103:21 Bless ye the LORD, all ye his hosts; ye ministers of his, that
do his pleasure.

103:22 Bless the LORD, all his works in all places of his dominion:
bless the LORD, O my soul.



104:1 Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, thou art very great;
thou art clothed with honour and majesty.

104:2 Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment: who
stretchest out the heavens like a curtain:

104:3 Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh
the clouds his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind:

104:4 Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire:

104:5 Who laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be
removed for ever.

104:6 Thou coveredst it with the deep as with a garment: the waters
stood above the mountains.

104:7 At thy rebuke they fled; at the voice of thy thunder they hasted
away.

104:8 They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys unto
the place which thou hast founded for them.

104:9 Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; that they
turn not again to cover the earth.

104:10 He sendeth the springs into the valleys, which run among the
hills.

104:11 They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses
quench their thirst.

104:12 By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation,
which sing among the branches.

104:13 He watereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied
with the fruit of thy works.

104:14 He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the
service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth;

104:15 And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, and oil to make his
face to shine, and bread which strengtheneth man's heart.

104:16 The trees of the LORD are full of sap; the cedars of Lebanon,
which he hath planted;

104:17 Where the birds make their nests: as for the stork, the fir
trees are her house.

104:18 The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats; and the rocks
for the conies.

104:19 He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going
down.

104:20 Thou makest darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts
of the forest do creep forth.

104:21 The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from
God.

104:22 The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and lay them
down in their dens.

104:23 Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the
evening.

104:24 O LORD, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made
them all: the earth is full of thy riches.

104:25 So is this great and wide sea, wherein are things creeping
innumerable, both small and great beasts.

104:26 There go the ships: there is that leviathan, whom thou hast
made to play therein.

104:27 These wait all upon thee; that thou mayest give them their meat
in due season.

104:28 That thou givest them they gather: thou openest thine hand,
they are filled with good.

104:29 Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takest away their
breath, they die, and return to their dust.

104:30 Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created: and thou
renewest the face of the earth.

104:31 The glory of the LORD shall endure for ever: the LORD shall
rejoice in his works.

104:32 He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the
hills, and they smoke.

104:33 I will sing unto the LORD as long as I live: I will sing praise
to my God while I have my being.

104:34 My meditation of him shall be sweet: I will be glad in the
LORD.

104:35 Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the
wicked be no more. Bless thou the LORD, O my soul. Praise ye the LORD.



105:1 O give thanks unto the LORD; call upon his name: make known his
deeds among the people.

105:2 Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him: talk ye of all his wondrous
works.

105:3 Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that
seek the LORD.

105:4 Seek the LORD, and his strength: seek his face evermore.

105:5 Remember his marvellous works that he hath done; his wonders,
and the judgments of his mouth;

105:6 O ye seed of Abraham his servant, ye children of Jacob his
chosen.

105:7 He is the LORD our God: his judgments are in all the earth.

105:8 He hath remembered his covenant for ever, the word which he
commanded to a thousand generations.

105:9 Which covenant he made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac;

105:10 And confirmed the same unto Jacob for a law, and to Israel for
an everlasting covenant:

105:11 Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of
your inheritance:

105:12 When they were but a few men in number; yea, very few, and
strangers in it.

105:13 When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to
another people;

105:14 He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for
their sakes;

105:15 Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.

105:16 Moreover he called for a famine upon the land: he brake the
whole staff of bread.

105:17 He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a
servant:

105:18 Whose feet they hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron:

105:19 Until the time that his word came: the word of the LORD tried
him.

105:20 The king sent and loosed him; even the ruler of the people, and
let him go free.

105:21 He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance:

105:22 To bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his senators
wisdom.

105:23 Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of
Ham.

105:24 And he increased his people greatly; and made them stronger
than their enemies.

105:25 He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilly with
his servants.

105:26 He sent Moses his servant; and Aaron whom he had chosen.

105:27 They shewed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of
Ham.

105:28 He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not
against his word.

105:29 He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish.

105:30 Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of
their kings.

105:31 He spake, and there came divers sorts of flies, and lice in all
their coasts.

105:32 He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land.

105:33 He smote their vines also and their fig trees; and brake the
trees of their coasts.

105:34 He spake, and the locusts came, and caterpillers, and that
without number,

105:35 And did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the
fruit of their ground.

105:36 He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all
their strength.

105:37 He brought them forth also with silver and gold: and there was
not one feeble person among their tribes.

105:38 Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell
upon them.

105:39 He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the
night.

105:40 The people asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them
with the bread of heaven.

105:41 He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the
dry places like a river.

105:42 For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his servant.

105:43 And he brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with
gladness:

105:44 And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the
labour of the people;

105:45 That they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Praise
ye the LORD.



106:1 Praise ye the LORD. O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good:
for his mercy endureth for ever.

106:2 Who can utter the mighty acts of the LORD? who can shew forth
all his praise?

106:3 Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth
righteousness at all times.

106:4 Remember me, O LORD, with the favour that thou bearest unto thy
people: O visit me with thy salvation;

106:5 That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the
gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance.

106:6 We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we
have done wickedly.

106:7 Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered
not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at
the Red sea.

106:8 Nevertheless he saved them for his name's sake, that he might
make his mighty power to be known.

106:9 He rebuked the Red sea also, and it was dried up: so he led them
through the depths, as through the wilderness.

106:10 And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and
redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.

106:11 And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them
left.

106:12 Then believed they his words; they sang his praise.

106:13 They soon forgat his works; they waited not for his counsel:

106:14 But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in
the desert.

106:15 And he gave them their request; but sent leanness into their
soul.

106:16 They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the saint of the
LORD.

106:17 The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan and covered the
company of Abiram.

106:18 And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up
the wicked.

106:19 They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image.

106:20 Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that
eateth grass.

106:21 They forgat God their saviour, which had done great things in
Egypt;

106:22 Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and terrible things by the
Red sea.

106:23 Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his
chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he
should destroy them.

106:24 Yea, they despised the pleasant land, they believed not his
word:

106:25 But murmured in their tents, and hearkened not unto the voice
of the LORD.

106:26 Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, to overthrow them
in the wilderness:

106:27 To overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter
them in the lands.

106:28 They joined themselves also unto Baalpeor, and ate the
sacrifices of the dead.

106:29 Thus they provoked him to anger with their inventions: and the
plague brake in upon them.

106:30 Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment: and so the
plague was stayed.

106:31 And that was counted unto him for righteousness unto all
generations for evermore.

106:32 They angered him also at the waters of strife, so that it went
ill with Moses for their sakes:

106:33 Because they provoked his spirit, so that he spake unadvisedly
with his lips.

106:34 They did not destroy the nations, concerning whom the LORD
commanded them:

106:35 But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works.

106:36 And they served their idols: which were a snare unto them.

106:37 Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto
devils,

106:38 And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of
their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan: and
the land was polluted with blood.

106:39 Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a whoring
with their own inventions.

106:40 Therefore was the wrath of the LORD kindled against his people,
insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance.

106:41 And he gave them into the hand of the heathen; and they that
hated them ruled over them.

106:42 Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into
subjection under their hand.

106:43 Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked him with
their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity.

106:44 Nevertheless he regarded their affliction, when he heard their
cry:

106:45 And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according
to the multitude of his mercies.

106:46 He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them
captives.

106:47 Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the heathen,
to give thanks unto thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise.

106:48 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting to
everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye the LORD.



107:1 O give thanks unto the LORD, for he is good: for his mercy
endureth for ever.

107:2 Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, whom he hath redeemed from
the hand of the enemy;

107:3 And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the
west, from the north, and from the south.

107:4 They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no
city to dwell in.

107:5 Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.

107:6 Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered
them out of their distresses.

107:7 And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a
city of habitation.

107:8 Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his
wonderful works to the children of men!

107:9 For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul
with goodness.

107:10 Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound
in affliction and iron;

107:11 Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned
the counsel of the most High:

107:12 Therefore he brought down their heart with labour; they fell
down, and there was none to help.

107:13 Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, and he saved
them out of their distresses.

107:14 He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and
brake their bands in sunder.

107:15 Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his
wonderful works to the children of men!

107:16 For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron
in sunder.

107:17 Fools because of their transgression, and because of their
iniquities, are afflicted.

107:18 Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat; and they draw near
unto the gates of death.

107:19 Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, and he saveth
them out of their distresses.

107:20 He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them from
their destructions.

107:21 Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his
wonderful works to the children of men!

107:22 And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and
declare his works with rejoicing.

107:23 They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in
great waters;

107:24 These see the works of the LORD, and his wonders in the deep.

107:25 For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth
up the waves thereof.

107:26 They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths:
their soul is melted because of trouble.

107:27 They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are
at their wit's end.

107:28 Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, and he bringeth
them out of their distresses.

107:29 He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are
still.

107:30 Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he bringeth them
unto their desired haven.

107:31 Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his
wonderful works to the children of men!

107:32 Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and
praise him in the assembly of the elders.

107:33 He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the watersprings into
dry ground;

107:34 A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them
that dwell therein.

107:35 He turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground
into watersprings.

107:36 And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare
a city for habitation;

107:37 And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits
of increase.

107:38 He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and
suffereth not their cattle to decrease.

107:39 Again, they are minished and brought low through oppression,
affliction, and sorrow.

107:40 He poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to wander in
the wilderness, where there is no way.

107:41 Yet setteth he the poor on high from affliction, and maketh him
families like a flock.

107:42 The righteous shall see it, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall
stop her mouth.

107:43 Whoso is wise, and will observe these things, even they shall
understand the lovingkindness of the LORD.



108:1 O god, my heart is fixed; I will sing and give praise, even with
my glory.

108:2 Awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early.

108:3 I will praise thee, O LORD, among the people: and I will sing
praises unto thee among the nations.

108:4 For thy mercy is great above the heavens: and thy truth reacheth
unto the clouds.

108:5 Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: and thy glory above
all the earth;

108:6 That thy beloved may be delivered: save with thy right hand, and
answer me.

108:7 God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide
Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.

108:8 Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength
of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;

108:9 Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; over
Philistia will I triumph.

108:10 Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into
Edom?

108:11 Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? and wilt not thou,
O God, go forth with our hosts?

108:12 Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.

108:13 Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall
tread down our enemies.



109:1 Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise;

109:2 For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are
opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue.

109:3 They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and fought
against me without a cause.

109:4 For my love they are my adversaries: but I give myself unto
prayer.

109:5 And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.

109:6 Set thou a wicked man over him: and let Satan stand at his right
hand.

109:7 When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and let his
prayer become sin.

109:8 Let his days be few; and let another take his office.

109:9 Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.

109:10 Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them
seek their bread also out of their desolate places.

109:11 Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the
strangers spoil his labour.

109:12 Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there
be any to favour his fatherless children.

109:13 Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following
let their name be blotted out.

109:14 Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the LORD;
and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out.

109:15 Let them be before the LORD continually, that he may cut off
the memory of them from the earth.

109:16 Because that he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted
the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart.

109:17 As he loved cursing, so let it come unto him: as he delighted
not in blessing, so let it be far from him.

109:18 As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so
let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones.

109:19 Let it be unto him as the garment which covereth him, and for a
girdle wherewith he is girded continually.

109:20 Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from the LORD, and
of them that speak evil against my soul.

109:21 But do thou for me, O GOD the Lord, for thy name's sake:
because thy mercy is good, deliver thou me.

109:22 For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.

109:23 I am gone like the shadow when it declineth: I am tossed up and
down as the locust.

109:24 My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh faileth of
fatness.

109:25 I became also a reproach unto them: when they looked upon me
they shaked their heads.

109:26 Help me, O LORD my God: O save me according to thy mercy:

109:27 That they may know that this is thy hand; that thou, LORD, hast
done it.

109:28 Let them curse, but bless thou: when they arise, let them be
ashamed; but let thy servant rejoice.

109:29 Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover
themselves with their own confusion, as with a mantle.

109:30 I will greatly praise the LORD with my mouth; yea, I will
praise him among the multitude.

109:31 For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him
from those that condemn his soul.



110:1 The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I
make thine enemies thy footstool.

110:2 The LORD shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion: rule
thou in the midst of thine enemies.

110:3 Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the
beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: thou hast the dew
of thy youth.

110:4 The LORD hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for
ever after the order of Melchizedek.

110:5 The Lord at thy right hand shall strike through kings in the day
of his wrath.

110:6 He shall judge among the heathen, he shall fill the places with
the dead bodies; he shall wound the heads over many countries.

110:7 He shall drink of the brook in the way: therefore shall he lift
up the head.



111:1 Praise ye the LORD. I will praise the LORD with my whole heart,
in the assembly of the upright, and in the congregation.

111:2 The works of the LORD are great, sought out of all them that
have pleasure therein.

111:3 His work is honourable and glorious: and his righteousness
endureth for ever.

111:4 He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered: the LORD is
gracious and full of compassion.

111:5 He hath given meat unto them that fear him: he will ever be
mindful of his covenant.

111:6 He hath shewed his people the power of his works, that he may
give them the heritage of the heathen.

111:7 The works of his hands are verity and judgment; all his
commandments are sure.

111:8 They stand fast for ever and ever, and are done in truth and
uprightness.

111:9 He sent redemption unto his people: he hath commanded his
covenant for ever: holy and reverend is his name.

111:10 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: a good
understanding have all they that do his commandments: his praise
endureth for ever.



112:1 Praise ye the LORD. Blessed is the man that feareth the LORD,
that delighteth greatly in his commandments.

112:2 His seed shall be mighty upon earth: the generation of the
upright shall be blessed.

112:3 Wealth and riches shall be in his house: and his righteousness
endureth for ever.

112:4 Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness: he is
gracious, and full of compassion, and righteous.

112:5 A good man sheweth favour, and lendeth: he will guide his
affairs with discretion.

112:6 Surely he shall not be moved for ever: the righteous shall be in
everlasting remembrance.

112:7 He shall not be afraid of evil tidings: his heart is fixed,
trusting in the LORD.

112:8 His heart is established, he shall not be afraid, until he see
his desire upon his enemies.

112:9 He hath dispersed, he hath given to the poor; his righteousness
endureth for ever; his horn shall be exalted with honour.

112:10 The wicked shall see it, and be grieved; he shall gnash with
his teeth, and melt away: the desire of the wicked shall perish.



113:1 Praise ye the LORD. Praise, O ye servants of the LORD, praise
the name of the LORD.

113:2 Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time forth and for
evermore.

113:3 From the rising of the sun unto the going down of the same the
LORD's name is to be praised.

113:4 The LORD is high above all nations, and his glory above the
heavens.

113:5 Who is like unto the LORD our God, who dwelleth on high,

113:6 Who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven,
and in the earth!

113:7 He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth the needy
out of the dunghill;

113:8 That he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his
people.

113:9 He maketh the barren woman to keep house, and to be a joyful
mother of children. Praise ye the LORD.



114:1 When Israel went out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people
of strange language;

114:2 Judah was his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion.

114:3 The sea saw it, and fled: Jordan was driven back.

114:4 The mountains skipped like rams, and the little hills like
lambs.

114:5 What ailed thee, O thou sea, that thou fleddest? thou Jordan,
that thou wast driven back?

114:6 Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams; and ye little hills,
like lambs?

114:7 Tremble, thou earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the
presence of the God of Jacob;

114:8 Which turned the rock into a standing water, the flint into a
fountain of waters.



115:1 Not unto us, O LORD, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory,
for thy mercy, and for thy truth's sake.

115:2 Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God?

115:3 But our God is in the heavens: he hath done whatsoever he hath
pleased.

115:4 Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men's hands.

115:5 They have mouths, but they speak not: eyes have they, but they
see not:

115:6 They have ears, but they hear not: noses have they, but they
smell not:

115:7 They have hands, but they handle not: feet have they, but they
walk not: neither speak they through their throat.

115:8 They that make them are like unto them; so is every one that
trusteth in them.

115:9 O Israel, trust thou in the LORD: he is their help and their
shield.

115:10 O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD: he is their help and their
shield.

115:11 Ye that fear the LORD, trust in the LORD: he is their help and
their shield.

115:12 The LORD hath been mindful of us: he will bless us; he will
bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron.

115:13 He will bless them that fear the LORD, both small and great.

115:14 The LORD shall increase you more and more, you and your
children.

115:15 Ye are blessed of the LORD which made heaven and earth.

115:16 The heaven, even the heavens, are the LORD's: but the earth
hath he given to the children of men.

115:17 The dead praise not the LORD, neither any that go down into
silence.

115:18 But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and for
evermore.

Praise the LORD.



116:1 I love the LORD, because he hath heard my voice and my
supplications.

116:2 Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call
upon him as long as I live.

116:3 The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell gat
hold upon me: I found trouble and sorrow.

116:4 Then called I upon the name of the LORD; O LORD, I beseech thee,
deliver my soul.

116:5 Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; yea, our God is merciful.

116:6 The LORD preserveth the simple: I was brought low, and he helped
me.

116:7 Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for the LORD hath dealt
bountifully with thee.

116:8 For thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from
tears, and my feet from falling.

116:9 I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living.

116:10 I believed, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted:

116:11 I said in my haste, All men are liars.

116:12 What shall I render unto the LORD for all his benefits toward
me?

116:13 I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the
LORD.

116:14 I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his
people.

116:15 Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints.

116:16 O LORD, truly I am thy servant; I am thy servant, and the son
of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds.

116:17 I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will
call upon the name of the LORD.

116:18 I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his
people.

116:19 In the courts of the LORD's house, in the midst of thee, O
Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD.



117:1 O praise the LORD, all ye nations: praise him, all ye people.

117:2 For his merciful kindness is great toward us: and the truth of
the LORD endureth for ever. Praise ye the LORD.



118:1 O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: because his mercy
endureth for ever.

118:2 Let Israel now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.

118:3 Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy endureth for
ever.

118:4 Let them now that fear the LORD say, that his mercy endureth for
ever.

118:5 I called upon the LORD in distress: the LORD answered me, and
set me in a large place.

118:6 The LORD is on my side; I will not fear: what can man do unto
me?

118:7 The LORD taketh my part with them that help me: therefore shall
I see my desire upon them that hate me.

118:8 It is better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in man.

118:9 It is better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in
princes.

118:10 All nations compassed me about: but in the name of the LORD
will I destroy them.

118:11 They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: but in
the name of the LORD I will destroy them.

118:12 They compassed me about like bees: they are quenched as the
fire of thorns: for in the name of the LORD I will destroy them.

118:13 Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but the LORD
helped me.

118:14 The LORD is my strength and song, and is become my salvation.

118:15 The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of
the righteous: the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.

118:16 The right hand of the LORD is exalted: the right hand of the
LORD doeth valiantly.

118:17 I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the LORD.

118:18 The LORD hath chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over
unto death.

118:19 Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, and
I will praise the LORD:

118:20 This gate of the LORD, into which the righteous shall enter.

118:21 I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and art become my
salvation.

118:22 The stone which the builders refused is become the head stone
of the corner.

118:23 This is the LORD's doing; it is marvellous in our eyes.

118:24 This is the day which the LORD hath made; we will rejoice and
be glad in it.

118:25 Save now, I beseech thee, O LORD: O LORD, I beseech thee, send
now prosperity.

118:26 Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the LORD: we have
blessed you out of the house of the LORD.

118:27 God is the LORD, which hath shewed us light: bind the sacrifice
with cords, even unto the horns of the altar.

118:28 Thou art my God, and I will praise thee: thou art my God, I
will exalt thee.

118:29 O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy
endureth for ever.



119:1 Blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the
LORD.

119:2 Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, and that seek him
with the whole heart.

119:3 They also do no iniquity: they walk in his ways.

119:4 Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently.

119:5 O that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes!

119:6 Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all thy
commandments.

119:7 I will praise thee with uprightness of heart, when I shall have
learned thy righteous judgments.

119:8 I will keep thy statutes: O forsake me not utterly.

119:9 Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed
thereto according to thy word.

119:10 With my whole heart have I sought thee: O let me not wander
from thy commandments.

119:11 Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against
thee.

119:12 Blessed art thou, O LORD: teach me thy statutes.

119:13 With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth.

119:14 I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in
all riches.

119:15 I will meditate in thy precepts, and have respect unto thy
ways.

119:16 I will delight myself in thy statutes: I will not forget thy
word.

119:17 Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live, and keep
thy word.

119:18 Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of
thy law.

119:19 I am a stranger in the earth: hide not thy commandments from
me.

119:20 My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath unto thy
judgments at all times.

119:21 Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from
thy commandments.

119:22 Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept thy
testimonies.

119:23 Princes also did sit and speak against me: but thy servant did
meditate in thy statutes.

119:24 Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counsellors.

119:25 My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken thou me according to
thy word.

119:26 I have declared my ways, and thou heardest me: teach me thy
statutes.

119:27 Make me to understand the way of thy precepts: so shall I talk
of thy wondrous works.

119:28 My soul melteth for heaviness: strengthen thou me according
unto thy word.

119:29 Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me thy law
graciously.

119:30 I have chosen the way of truth: thy judgments have I laid
before me.

119:31 I have stuck unto thy testimonies: O LORD, put me not to shame.

119:32 I will run the way of thy commandments, when thou shalt enlarge
my heart.

119:33 Teach me, O LORD, the way of thy statutes; and I shall keep it
unto the end.

119:34 Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; yea, I shall
observe it with my whole heart.

119:35 Make me to go in the path of thy commandments; for therein do I
delight.

119:36 Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to covetousness.

119:37 Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity; and quicken thou me
in thy way.

119:38 Stablish thy word unto thy servant, who is devoted to thy fear.

119:39 Turn away my reproach which I fear: for thy judgments are good.

119:40 Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: quicken me in thy
righteousness.

119:41 Let thy mercies come also unto me, O LORD, even thy salvation,
according to thy word.

119:42 So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me:
for I trust in thy word.

119:43 And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I
have hoped in thy judgments.

119:44 So shall I keep thy law continually for ever and ever.

119:45 And I will walk at liberty: for I seek thy precepts.

119:46 I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not
be ashamed.

119:47 And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have
loved.

119:48 My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I
have loved; and I will meditate in thy statutes.

119:49 Remember the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused
me to hope.

119:50 This is my comfort in my affliction: for thy word hath
quickened me.

119:51 The proud have had me greatly in derision: yet have I not
declined from thy law.

119:52 I remembered thy judgments of old, O LORD; and have comforted
myself.

119:53 Horror hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that
forsake thy law.

119:54 Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.

119:55 I have remembered thy name, O LORD, in the night, and have kept
thy law.

119:56 This I had, because I kept thy precepts.

119:57 Thou art my portion, O LORD: I have said that I would keep thy
words.

119:58 I intreated thy favour with my whole heart: be merciful unto me
according to thy word.

119:59 I thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies.

119:60 I made haste, and delayed not to keep thy commandments.

119:61 The bands of the wicked have robbed me: but I have not
forgotten thy law.

119:62 At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee because of thy
righteous judgments.

119:63 I am a companion of all them that fear thee, and of them that
keep thy precepts.

119:64 The earth, O LORD, is full of thy mercy: teach me thy statutes.

119:65 Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O LORD, according unto
thy word.

119:66 Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed thy
commandments.

119:67 Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy
word.

119:68 Thou art good, and doest good; teach me thy statutes.

119:69 The proud have forged a lie against me: but I will keep thy
precepts with my whole heart.

119:70 Their heart is as fat as grease; but I delight in thy law.

119:71 It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might
learn thy statutes.

119:72 The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold
and silver.

119:73 Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding,
that I may learn thy commandments.

119:74 They that fear thee will be glad when they see me; because I
have hoped in thy word.

119:75 I know, O LORD, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in
faithfulness hast afflicted me.

119:76 Let, I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort,
according to thy word unto thy servant.

119:77 Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy
law is my delight.

119:78 Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me
without a cause: but I will meditate in thy precepts.

119:79 Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that have
known thy testimonies.

119:80 Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed.

119:81 My soul fainteth for thy salvation: but I hope in thy word.

119:82 Mine eyes fail for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me?

119:83 For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; yet do I not forget
thy statutes.

119:84 How many are the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute
judgment on them that persecute me?

119:85 The proud have digged pits for me, which are not after thy law.

119:86 All thy commandments are faithful: they persecute me
wrongfully; help thou me.

119:87 They had almost consumed me upon earth; but I forsook not thy
precepts.

119:88 Quicken me after thy lovingkindness; so shall I keep the
testimony of thy mouth.

119:89 For ever, O LORD, thy word is settled in heaven.

119:90 Thy faithfulness is unto all generations: thou hast established
the earth, and it abideth.

119:91 They continue this day according to thine ordinances: for all
are thy servants.

119:92 Unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have
perished in mine affliction.

119:93 I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast
quickened me.

119:94 I am thine, save me: for I have sought thy precepts.

119:95 The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: but I will
consider thy testimonies.

119:96 I have seen an end of all perfection: but thy commandment is
exceeding broad.

119:97 O how I love thy law! it is my meditation all the day.

119:98 Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine
enemies: for they are ever with me.

119:99 I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy
testimonies are my meditation.

119:100 I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy
precepts.

119:101 I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might
keep thy word.

119:102 I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught
me.

119:103 How sweet are thy words unto my taste! yea, sweeter than honey
to my mouth!

119:104 Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate
every false way.

119:105 Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.

119:106 I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy
righteous judgments.

119:107 I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O LORD, according unto
thy word.

119:108 Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O
LORD, and teach me thy judgments.

119:109 My soul is continually in my hand: yet do I not forget thy
law.

119:110 The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from thy
precepts.

119:111 Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage for ever: for they
are the rejoicing of my heart.

119:112 I have inclined mine heart to perform thy statutes alway, even
unto the end.

119:113 I hate vain thoughts: but thy law do I love.

119:114 Thou art my hiding place and my shield: I hope in thy word.

119:115 Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments
of my God.

119:116 Uphold me according unto thy word, that I may live: and let me
not be ashamed of my hope.

119:117 Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect
unto thy statutes continually.

119:118 Thou hast trodden down all them that err from thy statutes:
for their deceit is falsehood.

119:119 Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross:
therefore I love thy testimonies.

119:120 My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; and I am afraid of thy
judgments.

119:121 I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine
oppressors.

119:122 Be surety for thy servant for good: let not the proud oppress
me.

119:123 Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy
righteousness.

119:124 Deal with thy servant according unto thy mercy, and teach me
thy statutes.

119:125 I am thy servant; give me understanding, that I may know thy
testimonies.

119:126 It is time for thee, LORD, to work: for they have made void
thy law.

119:127 Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine
gold.

119:128 Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to
be right; and I hate every false way.

119:129 Thy testimonies are wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep
them.

119:130 The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth
understanding unto the simple.

119:131 I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy
commandments.

119:132 Look thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, as thou usest to
do unto those that love thy name.

119:133 Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have
dominion over me.

119:134 Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep thy
precepts.

119:135 Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; and teach me thy
statutes.

119:136 Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy
law.

119:137 Righteous art thou, O LORD, and upright are thy judgments.

119:138 Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous and
very faithful.

119:139 My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten
thy words.

119:140 Thy word is very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it.

119:141 I am small and despised: yet do not I forget thy precepts.

119:142 Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law
is the truth.

119:143 Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet thy
commandments are my delights.

119:144 The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting: give me
understanding, and I shall live.

119:145 I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O LORD: I will keep thy
statutes.

119:146 I cried unto thee; save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies.

119:147 I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in
thy word.

119:148 Mine eyes prevent the night watches, that I might meditate in
thy word.

119:149 Hear my voice according unto thy lovingkindness: O LORD,
quicken me according to thy judgment.

119:150 They draw nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from
thy law.

119:151 Thou art near, O LORD; and all thy commandments are truth.

119:152 Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast
founded them for ever.

119:153 Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget
thy law.

119:154 Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to thy
word.

119:155 Salvation is far from the wicked: for they seek not thy
statutes.

119:156 Great are thy tender mercies, O LORD: quicken me according to
thy judgments.

119:157 Many are my persecutors and mine enemies; yet do I not decline
from thy testimonies.

119:158 I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept
not thy word.

119:159 Consider how I love thy precepts: quicken me, O LORD,
according to thy lovingkindness.

119:160 Thy word is true from the beginning: and every one of thy
righteous judgments endureth for ever.

119:161 Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart
standeth in awe of thy word.

119:162 I rejoice at thy word, as one that findeth great spoil.

119:163 I hate and abhor lying: but thy law do I love.

119:164 Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous
judgments.

119:165 Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall
offend them.

119:166 LORD, I have hoped for thy salvation, and done thy
commandments.

119:167 My soul hath kept thy testimonies; and I love them
exceedingly.

119:168 I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my ways
are before thee.

119:169 Let my cry come near before thee, O LORD: give me
understanding according to thy word.

119:170 Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me according to
thy word.

119:171 My lips shall utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy
statutes.

119:172 My tongue shall speak of thy word: for all thy commandments
are righteousness.

119:173 Let thine hand help me; for I have chosen thy precepts.

119:174 I have longed for thy salvation, O LORD; and thy law is my
delight.

119:175 Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy
judgments help me.

119:176 I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I
do not forget thy commandments.



120:1 In my distress I cried unto the LORD, and he heard me.

120:2 Deliver my soul, O LORD, from lying lips, and from a deceitful
tongue.

120:3 What shall be given unto thee? or what shall be done unto thee,
thou false tongue?

120:4 Sharp arrows of the mighty, with coals of juniper.

120:5 Woe is me, that I sojourn in Mesech, that I dwell in the tents
of Kedar!

120:6 My soul hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace.

120:7 I am for peace: but when I speak, they are for war.



121:1 I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my
help.

121:2 My help cometh from the LORD, which made heaven and earth.

121:3 He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: he that keepeth thee
will not slumber.

121:4 Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep.

121:5 The LORD is thy keeper: the LORD is thy shade upon thy right
hand.

121:6 The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night.

121:7 The LORD shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve
thy soul.

121:8 The LORD shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from
this time forth, and even for evermore.



122:1 I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of
the LORD.

122:2 Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem.

122:3 Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together:

122:4 Whither the tribes go up, the tribes of the LORD, unto the
testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the LORD.

122:5 For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house
of David.

122:6 Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love
thee.

122:7 Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces.

122:8 For my brethren and companions' sakes, I will now say, Peace be
within thee.

122:9 Because of the house of the LORD our God I will seek thy good.



123:1 Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the
heavens.

123:2 Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their
masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; so
our eyes wait upon the LORD our God, until that he have mercy upon us.

123:3 Have mercy upon us, O LORD, have mercy upon us: for we are
exceedingly filled with contempt.

123:4 Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorning of those that
are at ease, and with the contempt of the proud.



124:1 If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, now may Israel
say;

124:2 If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, when men rose
up against us:

124:3 Then they had swallowed us up quick, when their wrath was
kindled against us:

124:4 Then the waters had overwhelmed us, the stream had gone over our
soul:

124:5 Then the proud waters had gone over our soul.

124:6 Blessed be the LORD, who hath not given us as a prey to their
teeth.

124:7 Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers:
the snare is broken, and we are escaped.

124:8 Our help is in the name of the LORD, who made heaven and earth.



125:1 They that trust in the LORD shall be as mount Zion, which cannot
be removed, but abideth for ever.

125:2 As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the LORD is round
about his people from henceforth even for ever.

125:3 For the rod of the wicked shall not rest upon the lot of the
righteous; lest the righteous put forth their hands unto iniquity.

125:4 Do good, O LORD, unto those that be good, and to them that are
upright in their hearts.

125:5 As for such as turn aside unto their crooked ways, the LORD
shall lead them forth with the workers of iniquity: but peace shall be
upon Israel.



126:1 When the LORD turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like
them that dream.

126:2 Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with
singing: then said they among the heathen, The LORD hath done great
things for them.

126:3 The LORD hath done great things for us; whereof we are glad.

126:4 Turn again our captivity, O LORD, as the streams in the south.

126:5 They that sow in tears shall reap in joy.

126:6 He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall
doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him.



127:1 Except the LORD build the house, they labour in vain that build
it: except the LORD keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.

127:2 It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the
bread of sorrows: for so he giveth his beloved sleep.

127:3 Lo, children are an heritage of the LORD: and the fruit of the
womb is his reward.

127:4 As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of
the youth.

127:5 Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them: they shall
not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate.



128:1 Blessed is every one that feareth the LORD; that walketh in his
ways.

128:2 For thou shalt eat the labour of thine hands: happy shalt thou
be, and it shall be well with thee.

128:3 Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine
house: thy children like olive plants round about thy table.

128:4 Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the
LORD.

128:5 The LORD shall bless thee out of Zion: and thou shalt see the
good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life.

128:6 Yea, thou shalt see thy children's children, and peace upon
Israel.



129:1 Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, may Israel now
say:

129:2 Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth: yet they have
not prevailed against me.

129:3 The plowers plowed upon my back: they made long their furrows.

129:4 The LORD is righteous: he hath cut asunder the cords of the
wicked.

129:5 Let them all be confounded and turned back that hate Zion.

129:6 Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which withereth
afore it groweth up:

129:7 Wherewith the mower filleth not his hand; nor he that bindeth
sheaves his bosom.

129:8 Neither do they which go by say, The blessing of the LORD be
upon you: we bless you in the name of the LORD.



130:1 Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O LORD.

130:2 Lord, hear my voice: let thine ears be attentive to the voice of
my supplications.

130:3 If thou, LORD, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall
stand?

130:4 But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared.

130:5 I wait for the LORD, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I
hope.

130:6 My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the
morning: I say, more than they that watch for the morning.

130:7 Let Israel hope in the LORD: for with the LORD there is mercy,
and with him is plenteous redemption.

130:8 And he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities.



131:1 Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor mine eyes lofty: neither do I
exercise myself in great matters, or in things too high for me.

131:2 Surely I have behaved and quieted myself, as a child that is
weaned of his mother: my soul is even as a weaned child.

131:3 Let Israel hope in the LORD from henceforth and for ever.



132:1 Lord, remember David, and all his afflictions:

132:2 How he sware unto the LORD, and vowed unto the mighty God of
Jacob;

132:3 Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go
up into my bed;

132:4 I will not give sleep to mine eyes, or slumber to mine eyelids,

132:5 Until I find out a place for the LORD, an habitation for the
mighty God of Jacob.

132:6 Lo, we heard of it at Ephratah: we found it in the fields of the
wood.

132:7 We will go into his tabernacles: we will worship at his
footstool.

132:8 Arise, O LORD, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thy strength.

132:9 Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness; and let thy
saints shout for joy.

132:10 For thy servant David's sake turn not away the face of thine
anointed.

132:11 The LORD hath sworn in truth unto David; he will not turn from
it; Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne.

132:12 If thy children will keep my covenant and my testimony that I
shall teach them, their children shall also sit upon thy throne for
evermore.

132:13 For the LORD hath chosen Zion; he hath desired it for his
habitation.

132:14 This is my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have desired
it.

132:15 I will abundantly bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor
with bread.

132:16 I will also clothe her priests with salvation: and her saints
shall shout aloud for joy.

132:17 There will I make the horn of David to bud: I have ordained a
lamp for mine anointed.

132:18 His enemies will I clothe with shame: but upon himself shall
his crown flourish.



133:1 Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell
together in unity!

133:2 It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down
upon the beard, even Aaron's beard: that went down to the skirts of
his garments;

133:3 As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the
mountains of Zion: for there the LORD commanded the blessing, even
life for evermore.



134:1 Behold, bless ye the LORD, all ye servants of the LORD, which by
night stand in the house of the LORD.

134:2 Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, and bless the LORD.

134:3 The LORD that made heaven and earth bless thee out of Zion.



135:1 Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the name of the LORD; praise him,
O ye servants of the LORD.

135:2 Ye that stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the
house of our God.

135:3 Praise the LORD; for the LORD is good: sing praises unto his
name; for it is pleasant.

135:4 For the LORD hath chosen Jacob unto himself, and Israel for his
peculiar treasure.

135:5 For I know that the LORD is great, and that our Lord is above
all gods.

135:6 Whatsoever the LORD pleased, that did he in heaven, and in
earth, in the seas, and all deep places.

135:7 He causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; he
maketh lightnings for the rain; he bringeth the wind out of his
treasuries.

135:8 Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast.

135:9 Who sent tokens and wonders into the midst of thee, O Egypt,
upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants.

135:10 Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings;

135:11 Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the
kingdoms of Canaan:

135:12 And gave their land for an heritage, an heritage unto Israel
his people.

135:13 Thy name, O LORD, endureth for ever; and thy memorial, O LORD,
throughout all generations.

135:14 For the LORD will judge his people, and he will repent himself
concerning his servants.

135:15 The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men's
hands.

135:16 They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they
see not;

135:17 They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there any breath
in their mouths.

135:18 They that make them are like unto them: so is every one that
trusteth in them.

135:19 Bless the LORD, O house of Israel: bless the LORD, O house of
Aaron:

135:20 Bless the LORD, O house of Levi: ye that fear the LORD, bless
the LORD.

135:21 Blessed be the LORD out of Zion, which dwelleth at Jerusalem.

Praise ye the LORD.



136:1 O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy
endureth for ever.

136:2 O give thanks unto the God of gods: for his mercy endureth for
ever.

136:3 O give thanks to the Lord of lords: for his mercy endureth for
ever.

136:4 To him who alone doeth great wonders: for his mercy endureth for
ever.

136:5 To him that by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy endureth
for ever.

136:6 To him that stretched out the earth above the waters: for his
mercy endureth for ever.

136:7 To him that made great lights: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:8 The sun to rule by day: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:9 The moon and stars to rule by night: for his mercy endureth for
ever.

136:10 To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy
endureth for ever:

136:11 And brought out Israel from among them: for his mercy endureth
for ever:

136:12 With a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm: for his mercy
endureth for ever.

136:13 To him which divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy
endureth for ever:

136:14 And made Israel to pass through the midst of it: for his mercy
endureth for ever:

136:15 But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea: for his
mercy endureth for ever.

136:16 To him which led his people through the wilderness: for his
mercy endureth for ever.

136:17 To him which smote great kings: for his mercy endureth for
ever:

136:18 And slew famous kings: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:19 Sihon king of the Amorites: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:20 And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:21 And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy endureth for
ever:

136:22 Even an heritage unto Israel his servant: for his mercy
endureth for ever.

136:23 Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy endureth for
ever:

136:24 And hath redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy endureth
for ever.

136:25 Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:26 O give thanks unto the God of heaven: for his mercy endureth
for ever.



137:1 By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept, when
we remembered Zion.

137:2 We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof.

137:3 For there they that carried us away captive required of us a
song; and they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us
one of the songs of Zion.

137:4 How shall we sing the LORD's song in a strange land?

137:5 If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her
cunning.

137:6 If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of
my mouth; if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy.

137:7 Remember, O LORD, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem;
who said, Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation thereof.

137:8 O daughter of Babylon, who art to be destroyed; happy shall he
be, that rewardeth thee as thou hast served us.

137:9 Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasheth thy little ones
against the stones.



138:1 I will praise thee with my whole heart: before the gods will I
sing praise unto thee.

138:2 I will worship toward thy holy temple, and praise thy name for
thy lovingkindness and for thy truth: for thou hast magnified thy word
above all thy name.

138:3 In the day when I cried thou answeredst me, and strengthenedst
me with strength in my soul.

138:4 All the kings of the earth shall praise thee, O LORD, when they
hear the words of thy mouth.

138:5 Yea, they shall sing in the ways of the LORD: for great is the
glory of the LORD.

138:6 Though the LORD be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly: but
the proud he knoweth afar off.

138:7 Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me: thou
shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and
thy right hand shall save me.

138:8 The LORD will perfect that which concerneth me: thy mercy, O
LORD, endureth for ever: forsake not the works of thine own hands.



139:1 O lord, thou hast searched me, and known me.

139:2 Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou
understandest my thought afar off.

139:3 Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted
with all my ways.

139:4 For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O LORD, thou
knowest it altogether.

139:5 Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon
me.

139:6 Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot
attain unto it.

139:7 Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from
thy presence?

139:8 If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in
hell, behold, thou art there.

139:9 If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost
parts of the sea;

139:10 Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall
hold me.

139:11 If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night
shall be light about me.

139:12 Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth
as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee.

139:13 For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my
mother's womb.

139:14 I will praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made:
marvellous are thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well.

139:15 My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret,
and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth.

139:16 Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect; and in
thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were
fashioned, when as yet there was none of them.

139:17 How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! how great is
the sum of them!

139:18 If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand:
when I awake, I am still with thee.

139:19 Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God: depart from me
therefore, ye bloody men.

139:20 For they speak against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take
thy name in vain.

139:21 Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate thee? and am not I
grieved with those that rise up against thee?

139:22 I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them mine enemies.

139:23 Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my
thoughts:

139:24 And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the
way everlasting.



140:1 Deliver me, O LORD, from the evil man: preserve me from the
violent man;

140:2 Which imagine mischiefs in their heart; continually are they
gathered together for war.

140:3 They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; adders' poison
is under their lips. Selah.

140:4 Keep me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from
the violent man; who have purposed to overthrow my goings.

140:5 The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; they have spread a
net by the wayside; they have set gins for me. Selah.

140:6 I said unto the LORD, Thou art my God: hear the voice of my
supplications, O LORD.

140:7 O GOD the Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered
my head in the day of battle.

140:8 Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked: further not his
wicked device; lest they exalt themselves. Selah.

140:9 As for the head of those that compass me about, let the mischief
of their own lips cover them.

140:10 Let burning coals fall upon them: let them be cast into the
fire; into deep pits, that they rise not up again.

140:11 Let not an evil speaker be established in the earth: evil shall
hunt the violent man to overthrow him.

140:12 I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted,
and the right of the poor.

140:13 Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name: the
upright shall dwell in thy presence.



141:1 Lord, I cry unto thee: make haste unto me; give ear unto my
voice, when I cry unto thee.

141:2 Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense; and the
lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.

141:3 Set a watch, O LORD, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips.

141:4 Incline not my heart to any evil thing, to practise wicked works
with men that work iniquity: and let me not eat of their dainties.

141:5 Let the righteous smite me; it shall be a kindness: and let him
reprove me; it shall be an excellent oil, which shall not break my
head: for yet my prayer also shall be in their calamities.

141:6 When their judges are overthrown in stony places, they shall
hear my words; for they are sweet.

141:7 Our bones are scattered at the grave's mouth, as when one
cutteth and cleaveth wood upon the earth.

141:8 But mine eyes are unto thee, O GOD the Lord: in thee is my
trust; leave not my soul destitute.

141:9 Keep me from the snares which they have laid for me, and the
gins of the workers of iniquity.

141:10 Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst that I withal
escape.



142:1 I cried unto the LORD with my voice; with my voice unto the LORD
did I make my supplication.

142:2 I poured out my complaint before him; I shewed before him my
trouble.

142:3 When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my
path.

In the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me.

142:4 I looked on my right hand, and beheld, but there was no man that
would know me: refuge failed me; no man cared for my soul.

142:5 I cried unto thee, O LORD: I said, Thou art my refuge and my
portion in the land of the living.

142:6 Attend unto my cry; for I am brought very low: deliver me from
my persecutors; for they are stronger than I.

142:7 Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name: the
righteous shall compass me about; for thou shalt deal bountifully with
me.



143:1 Hear my prayer, O LORD, give ear to my supplications: in thy
faithfulness answer me, and in thy righteousness.

143:2 And enter not into judgment with thy servant: for in thy sight
shall no man living be justified.

143:3 For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life
down to the ground; he hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those
that have been long dead.

143:4 Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me
is desolate.

143:5 I remember the days of old; I meditate on all thy works; I muse
on the work of thy hands.

143:6 I stretch forth my hands unto thee: my soul thirsteth after
thee, as a thirsty land. Selah.

143:7 Hear me speedily, O LORD: my spirit faileth: hide not thy face
from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit.

143:8 Cause me to hear thy lovingkindness in the morning; for in thee
do I trust: cause me to know the way wherein I should walk; for I lift
up my soul unto thee.

143:9 Deliver me, O LORD, from mine enemies: I flee unto thee to hide
me.

143:10 Teach me to do thy will; for thou art my God: thy spirit is
good; lead me into the land of uprightness.

143:11 Quicken me, O LORD, for thy name's sake: for thy righteousness'
sake bring my soul out of trouble.

143:12 And of thy mercy cut off mine enemies, and destroy all them
that afflict my soul: for I am thy servant.



144:1 Blessed be the LORD my strength which teacheth my hands to war,
and my fingers to fight:

144:2 My goodness, and my fortress; my high tower, and my deliverer;
my shield, and he in whom I trust; who subdueth my people under me.

144:3 LORD, what is man, that thou takest knowledge of him! or the son
of man, that thou makest account of him!

144:4 Man is like to vanity: his days are as a shadow that passeth
away.

144:5 Bow thy heavens, O LORD, and come down: touch the mountains, and
they shall smoke.

144:6 Cast forth lightning, and scatter them: shoot out thine arrows,
and destroy them.

144:7 Send thine hand from above; rid me, and deliver me out of great
waters, from the hand of strange children;

144:8 Whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right
hand of falsehood.

144:9 I will sing a new song unto thee, O God: upon a psaltery and an
instrument of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee.

144:10 It is he that giveth salvation unto kings: who delivereth David
his servant from the hurtful sword.

144:11 Rid me, and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose
mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of
falsehood:

144:12 That our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth; that
our daughters may be as corner stones, polished after the similitude
of a palace:

144:13 That our garners may be full, affording all manner of store:
that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our
streets:

144:14 That our oxen may be strong to labour; that there be no
breaking in, nor going out; that there be no complaining in our
streets.

144:15 Happy is that people, that is in such a case: yea, happy is
that people, whose God is the LORD.



145:1 I will extol thee, my God, O king; and I will bless thy name for
ever and ever.

145:2 Every day will I bless thee; and I will praise thy name for ever
and ever.

145:3 Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; and his greatness
is unsearchable.

145:4 One generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall
declare thy mighty acts.

145:5 I will speak of the glorious honour of thy majesty, and of thy
wondrous works.

145:6 And men shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts: and I
will declare thy greatness.

145:7 They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness,
and shall sing of thy righteousness.

145:8 The LORD is gracious, and full of compassion; slow to anger, and
of great mercy.

145:9 The LORD is good to all: and his tender mercies are over all his
works.

145:10 All thy works shall praise thee, O LORD; and thy saints shall
bless thee.

145:11 They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom, and talk of thy
power;

145:12 To make known to the sons of men his mighty acts, and the
glorious majesty of his kingdom.

145:13 Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion
endureth throughout all generations.

145:14 The LORD upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all those that
be bowed down.

145:15 The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their meat
in due season.

145:16 Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of every
living thing.

145:17 The LORD is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his
works.

145:18 The LORD is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that
call upon him in truth.

145:19 He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him: he also will
hear their cry, and will save them.

145:20 The LORD preserveth all them that love him: but all the wicked
will he destroy.

145:21 My mouth shall speak the praise of the LORD: and let all flesh
bless his holy name for ever and ever.



146:1 Praise ye the LORD. Praise the LORD, O my soul.

146:2 While I live will I praise the LORD: I will sing praises unto my
God while I have any being.

146:3 Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom
there is no help.

146:4 His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in that very
day his thoughts perish.

146:5 Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope
is in the LORD his God:

146:6 Which made heaven, and earth, the sea, and all that therein is:
which keepeth truth for ever:

146:7 Which executeth judgment for the oppressed: which giveth food to
the hungry. The LORD looseth the prisoners:

146:8 The LORD openeth the eyes of the blind: the LORD raiseth them
that are bowed down: the LORD loveth the righteous:

146:9 The LORD preserveth the strangers; he relieveth the fatherless
and widow: but the way of the wicked he turneth upside down.

146:10 The LORD shall reign for ever, even thy God, O Zion, unto all
generations. Praise ye the LORD.



147:1 Praise ye the LORD: for it is good to sing praises unto our God;
for it is pleasant; and praise is comely.

147:2 The LORD doth build up Jerusalem: he gathereth together the
outcasts of Israel.

147:3 He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds.

147:4 He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their
names.

147:5 Great is our Lord, and of great power: his understanding is
infinite.

147:6 The LORD lifteth up the meek: he casteth the wicked down to the
ground.

147:7 Sing unto the LORD with thanksgiving; sing praise upon the harp
unto our God:

147:8 Who covereth the heaven with clouds, who prepareth rain for the
earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains.

147:9 He giveth to the beast his food, and to the young ravens which
cry.

147:10 He delighteth not in the strength of the horse: he taketh not
pleasure in the legs of a man.

147:11 The LORD taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that
hope in his mercy.

147:12 Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem; praise thy God, O Zion.

147:13 For he hath strengthened the bars of thy gates; he hath blessed
thy children within thee.

147:14 He maketh peace in thy borders, and filleth thee with the
finest of the wheat.

147:15 He sendeth forth his commandment upon earth: his word runneth
very swiftly.

147:16 He giveth snow like wool: he scattereth the hoarfrost like
ashes.

147:17 He casteth forth his ice like morsels: who can stand before his
cold?

147:18 He sendeth out his word, and melteth them: he causeth his wind
to blow, and the waters flow.

147:19 He sheweth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgments
unto Israel.

147:20 He hath not dealt so with any nation: and as for his judgments,
they have not known them. Praise ye the LORD.



148:1 Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the LORD from the heavens: praise
him in the heights.

148:2 Praise ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts.

148:3 Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light.

148:4 Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above
the heavens.

148:5 Let them praise the name of the LORD: for he commanded, and they
were created.

148:6 He hath also stablished them for ever and ever: he hath made a
decree which shall not pass.

148:7 Praise the LORD from the earth, ye dragons, and all deeps:

148:8 Fire, and hail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind fulfilling his
word:

148:9 Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars:

148:10 Beasts, and all cattle; creeping things, and flying fowl:

148:11 Kings of the earth, and all people; princes, and all judges of
the earth:

148:12 Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children:

148:13 Let them praise the name of the LORD: for his name alone is
excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven.

148:14 He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his
saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise
ye the LORD.



149:1 Praise ye the LORD. Sing unto the LORD a new song, and his
praise in the congregation of saints.

149:2 Let Israel rejoice in him that made him: let the children of
Zion be joyful in their King.

149:3 Let them praise his name in the dance: let them sing praises
unto him with the timbrel and harp.

149:4 For the LORD taketh pleasure in his people: he will beautify the
meek with salvation.

149:5 Let the saints be joyful in glory: let them sing aloud upon
their beds.

149:6 Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged
sword in their hand;

149:7 To execute vengeance upon the heathen, and punishments upon the
people;

149:8 To bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters
of iron;

149:9 To execute upon them the judgment written: this honour have all
his saints. Praise ye the LORD.



150:1 Praise ye the LORD. Praise God in his sanctuary: praise him in
the firmament of his power.

150:2 Praise him for his mighty acts: praise him according to his
excellent greatness.

150:3 Praise him with the sound of the trumpet: praise him with the
psaltery and harp.

150:4 Praise him with the timbrel and dance: praise him with stringed
instruments and organs.

150:5 Praise him upon the loud cymbals: praise him upon the high
sounding cymbals.

150:6 Let every thing that hath breath praise the LORD. Praise ye the LORD.




The Proverbs


1:1 The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel; 1:2 To
know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding;
1:3 To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and
equity; 1:4 To give subtilty to the simple, to the young man knowledge
and discretion.

1:5 A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of
understanding shall attain unto wise counsels: 1:6 To understand a
proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark
sayings.

1:7 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge: but fools
despise wisdom and instruction.

1:8 My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the
law of thy mother: 1:9 For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy
head, and chains about thy neck.

1:10 My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not.

1:11 If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk
privily for the innocent without cause: 1:12 Let us swallow them up
alive as the grave; and whole, as those that go down into the pit:
1:13 We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses
with spoil: 1:14 Cast in thy lot among us; let us all have one purse:
1:15 My son, walk not thou in the way with them; refrain thy foot from
their path: 1:16 For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed
blood.

1:17 Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird.

1:18 And they lay wait for their own blood; they lurk privily for
their own lives.

1:19 So are the ways of every one that is greedy of gain; which taketh
away the life of the owners thereof.

1:20 Wisdom crieth without; she uttereth her voice in the streets:
1:21 She crieth in the chief place of concourse, in the openings of
the gates: in the city she uttereth her words, saying, 1:22 How long,
ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? and the scorners delight in
their scorning, and fools hate knowledge?  1:23 Turn you at my
reproof: behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you, I will make known
my words unto you.

1:24 Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out my
hand, and no man regarded; 1:25 But ye have set at nought all my
counsel, and would none of my reproof: 1:26 I also will laugh at your
calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh; 1:27 When your fear
cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when
distress and anguish cometh upon you.

1:28 Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall
seek me early, but they shall not find me: 1:29 For that they hated
knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the LORD: 1:30 They would
none of my counsel: they despised all my reproof.

1:31 Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be
filled with their own devices.

1:32 For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the
prosperity of fools shall destroy them.

1:33 But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be
quiet from fear of evil.

2:1 My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and hide my commandments
with thee; 2:2 So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply
thine heart to understanding; 2:3 Yea, if thou criest after knowledge,
and liftest up thy voice for understanding; 2:4 If thou seekest her as
silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures; 2:5 Then shalt
thou understand the fear of the LORD, and find the knowledge of God.

2:6 For the LORD giveth wisdom: out of his mouth cometh knowledge and
understanding.

2:7 He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous: he is a buckler to
them that walk uprightly.

2:8 He keepeth the paths of judgment, and preserveth the way of his
saints.

2:9 Then shalt thou understand righteousness, and judgment, and
equity; yea, every good path.

2:10 When wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant
unto thy soul; 2:11 Discretion shall preserve thee, understanding
shall keep thee: 2:12 To deliver thee from the way of the evil man,
from the man that speaketh froward things; 2:13 Who leave the paths of
uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness; 2:14 Who rejoice to do
evil, and delight in the frowardness of the wicked; 2:15 Whose ways
are crooked, and they froward in their paths: 2:16 To deliver thee
from the strange woman, even from the stranger which flattereth with
her words; 2:17 Which forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth
the covenant of her God.

2:18 For her house inclineth unto death, and her paths unto the dead.

2:19 None that go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the
paths of life.

2:20 That thou mayest walk in the way of good men, and keep the paths
of the righteous.

2:21 For the upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall
remain in it.

2:22 But the wicked shall be cut off from the earth, and the
transgressors shall be rooted out of it.

3:1 My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep my
commandments: 3:2 For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall
they add to thee.

3:3 Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck;
write them upon the table of thine heart: 3:4 So shalt thou find
favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man.

3:5 Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine
own understanding.

3:6 In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.

3:7 Be not wise in thine own eyes: fear the LORD, and depart from
evil.

3:8 It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones.

3:9 Honour the LORD with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of
all thine increase: 3:10 So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and
thy presses shall burst out with new wine.

3:11 My son, despise not the chastening of the LORD; neither be weary
of his correction: 3:12 For whom the LORD loveth he correcteth; even
as a father the son in whom he delighteth.

3:13 Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth
understanding.

3:14 For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of
silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold.

3:15 She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst
desire are not to be compared unto her.

3:16 Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches
and honour.

3:17 Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.

3:18 She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy
is every one that retaineth her.

3:19 The LORD by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding hath
he established the heavens.

3:20 By his knowledge the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop
down the dew.

3:21 My son, let not them depart from thine eyes: keep sound wisdom
and discretion: 3:22 So shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to
thy neck.

3:23 Then shalt thou walk in thy way safely, and thy foot shall not
stumble.

3:24 When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid: yea, thou shalt
lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet.

3:25 Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the
wicked, when it cometh.

3:26 For the LORD shall be thy confidence, and shall keep thy foot
from being taken.

3:27 Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the
power of thine hand to do it.

3:28 Say not unto thy neighbour, Go, and come again, and to morrow I
will give; when thou hast it by thee.

3:29 Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth
securely by thee.

3:30 Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no
harm.

3:31 Envy thou not the oppressor, and choose none of his ways.

3:32 For the froward is abomination to the LORD: but his secret is
with the righteous.

3:33 The curse of the LORD is in the house of the wicked: but he
blesseth the habitation of the just.

3:34 Surely he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace unto the
lowly.

3:35 The wise shall inherit glory: but shame shall be the promotion of
fools.

4:1 Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know
understanding.

4:2 For I give you good doctrine, forsake ye not my law.

4:3 For I was my father's son, tender and only beloved in the sight of
my mother.

4:4 He taught me also, and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my
words: keep my commandments, and live.

4:5 Get wisdom, get understanding: forget it not; neither decline from
the words of my mouth.

4:6 Forsake her not, and she shall preserve thee: love her, and she
shall keep thee.

4:7 Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all
thy getting get understanding.

4:8 Exalt her, and she shall promote thee: she shall bring thee to
honour, when thou dost embrace her.

4:9 She shall give to thine head an ornament of grace: a crown of
glory shall she deliver to thee.

4:10 Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of thy life
shall be many.

4:11 I have taught thee in the way of wisdom; I have led thee in right
paths.

4:12 When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou
runnest, thou shalt not stumble.

4:13 Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go: keep her; for she
is thy life.

4:14 Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of
evil men.

4:15 Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away.

4:16 For they sleep not, except they have done mischief; and their
sleep is taken away, unless they cause some to fall.

4:17 For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of
violence.

4:18 But the path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth
more and more unto the perfect day.

4:19 The way of the wicked is as darkness: they know not at what they
stumble.

4:20 My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto my sayings.

4:21 Let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of
thine heart.

4:22 For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all
their flesh.

4:23 Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues
of life.

4:24 Put away from thee a froward mouth, and perverse lips put far
from thee.

4:25 Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight
before thee.

4:26 Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established.

4:27 Turn not to the right hand nor to the left: remove thy foot from
evil.

5:1 My son, attend unto my wisdom, and bow thine ear to my
understanding: 5:2 That thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy
lips may keep knowledge.

5:3 For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb, and her
mouth is smoother than oil: 5:4 But her end is bitter as wormwood,
sharp as a two-edged sword.

5:5 Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold on hell.

5:6 Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are
moveable, that thou canst not know them.

5:7 Hear me now therefore, O ye children, and depart not from the
words of my mouth.

5:8 Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her
house: 5:9 Lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto
the cruel: 5:10 Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth; and thy
labours be in the house of a stranger; 5:11 And thou mourn at the
last, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed, 5:12 And say, How have
I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof; 5:13 And have not
obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to them that
instructed me!  5:14 I was almost in all evil in the midst of the
congregation and assembly.

5:15 Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of
thine own well.

5:16 Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, and rivers of waters in
the streets.

5:17 Let them be only thine own, and not strangers' with thee.

5:18 Let thy fountain be blessed: and rejoice with the wife of thy
youth.

5:19 Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe; let her breasts
satisfy thee at all times; and be thou ravished always with her love.

5:20 And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and
embrace the bosom of a stranger?  5:21 For the ways of man are before
the eyes of the LORD, and he pondereth all his goings.

5:22 His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be
holden with the cords of his sins.

5:23 He shall die without instruction; and in the greatness of his
folly he shall go astray.

6:1 My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, if thou hast stricken
thy hand with a stranger, 6:2 Thou art snared with the words of thy
mouth, thou art taken with the words of thy mouth.

6:3 Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, when thou art come into
the hand of thy friend; go, humble thyself, and make sure thy friend.

6:4 Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids.

6:5 Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand of the hunter, and as a
bird from the hand of the fowler.

6:6 Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise: 6:7
Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler, 6:8 Provideth her meat in
the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest.

6:9 How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? when wilt thou arise out of
thy sleep?  6:10 Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little
folding of the hands to sleep: 6:11 So shall thy poverty come as one
that travelleth, and thy want as an armed man.

6:12 A naughty person, a wicked man, walketh with a froward mouth.

6:13 He winketh with his eyes, he speaketh with his feet, he teacheth
with his fingers; 6:14 Frowardness is in his heart, he deviseth
mischief continually; he soweth discord.

6:15 Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be
broken without remedy.

6:16 These six things doth the LORD hate: yea, seven are an
abomination unto him: 6:17 A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands
that shed innocent blood, 6:18 An heart that deviseth wicked
imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief, 6:19 A false
witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren.

6:20 My son, keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of
thy mother: 6:21 Bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them
about thy neck.

6:22 When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall
keep thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee.

6:23 For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs
of instruction are the way of life: 6:24 To keep thee from the evil
woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman.

6:25 Lust not after her beauty in thine heart; neither let her take
thee with her eyelids.

6:26 For by means of a whorish woman a man is brought to a piece of
bread: and the adultress will hunt for the precious life.

6:27 Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?
6:28 Can one go upon hot coals, and his feet not be burned?  6:29 So
he that goeth in to his neighbour's wife; whosoever toucheth her shall
not be innocent.

6:30 Men do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when
he is hungry; 6:31 But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he
shall give all the substance of his house.

6:32 But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding:
he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul.

6:33 A wound and dishonour shall he get; and his reproach shall not be
wiped away.

6:34 For jealousy is the rage of a man: therefore he will not spare in
the day of vengeance.

6:35 He will not regard any ransom; neither will he rest content,
though thou givest many gifts.

7:1 My son, keep my words, and lay up my commandments with thee.

7:2 Keep my commandments, and live; and my law as the apple of thine
eye.

7:3 Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the table of thine
heart.

7:4 Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister; and call understanding thy
kinswoman: 7:5 That they may keep thee from the strange woman, from
the stranger which flattereth with her words.

7:6 For at the window of my house I looked through my casement, 7:7
And beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, a
young man void of understanding, 7:8 Passing through the street near
her corner; and he went the way to her house, 7:9 In the twilight, in
the evening, in the black and dark night: 7:10 And, behold, there met
him a woman with the attire of an harlot, and subtil of heart.

7:11 (She is loud and stubborn; her feet abide not in her house: 7:12
Now is she without, now in the streets, and lieth in wait at every
corner.)  7:13 So she caught him, and kissed him, and with an impudent
face said unto him, 7:14 I have peace offerings with me; this day have
I payed my vows.

7:15 Therefore came I forth to meet thee, diligently to seek thy face,
and I have found thee.

7:16 I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved
works, with fine linen of Egypt.

7:17 I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.

7:18 Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning: let us
solace ourselves with loves.

7:19 For the goodman is not at home, he is gone a long journey: 7:20
He hath taken a bag of money with him, and will come home at the day
appointed.

7:21 With her much fair speech she caused him to yield, with the
flattering of her lips she forced him.

7:22 He goeth after her straightway, as an ox goeth to the slaughter,
or as a fool to the correction of the stocks; 7:23 Till a dart strike
through his liver; as a bird hasteth to the snare, and knoweth not
that it is for his life.

7:24 Hearken unto me now therefore, O ye children, and attend to the
words of my mouth.

7:25 Let not thine heart decline to her ways, go not astray in her
paths.

7:26 For she hath cast down many wounded: yea, many strong men have
been slain by her.

7:27 Her house is the way to hell, going down to the chambers of
death.

8:1 Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding put forth her voice?  8:2
She standeth in the top of high places, by the way in the places of
the paths.

8:3 She crieth at the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming
in at the doors.

8:4 Unto you, O men, I call; and my voice is to the sons of man.

8:5 O ye simple, understand wisdom: and, ye fools, be ye of an
understanding heart.

8:6 Hear; for I will speak of excellent things; and the opening of my
lips shall be right things.

8:7 For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is an abomination
to my lips.

8:8 All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing
froward or perverse in them.

8:9 They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them
that find knowledge.

8:10 Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than
choice gold.

8:11 For wisdom is better than rubies; and all the things that may be
desired are not to be compared to it.

8:12 I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty
inventions.

8:13 The fear of the LORD is to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and
the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate.

8:14 Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am understanding; I have
strength.

8:15 By me kings reign, and princes decree justice.

8:16 By me princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges of the earth.

8:17 I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find
me.

8:18 Riches and honour are with me; yea, durable riches and
righteousness.

8:19 My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my revenue
than choice silver.

8:20 I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of
judgment: 8:21 That I may cause those that love me to inherit
substance; and I will fill their treasures.

8:22 The LORD possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his
works of old.

8:23 I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the
earth was.

8:24 When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were
no fountains abounding with water.

8:25 Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought
forth: 8:26 While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields,
nor the highest part of the dust of the world.

8:27 When he prepared the heavens, I was there: when he set a compass
upon the face of the depth: 8:28 When he established the clouds above:
when he strengthened the fountains of the deep: 8:29 When he gave to
the sea his decree, that the waters should not pass his commandment:
when he appointed the foundations of the earth: 8:30 Then I was by
him, as one brought up with him: and I was daily his delight,
rejoicing always before him; 8:31 Rejoicing in the habitable part of
his earth; and my delights were with the sons of men.

8:32 Now therefore hearken unto me, O ye children: for blessed are
they that keep my ways.

8:33 Hear instruction, and be wise, and refuse it not.

8:34 Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates,
waiting at the posts of my doors.

8:35 For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the
LORD.

8:36 But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul: all they
that hate me love death.

9:1 Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath hewn out her seven
pillars: 9:2 She hath killed her beasts; she hath mingled her wine;
she hath also furnished her table.

9:3 She hath sent forth her maidens: she crieth upon the highest
places of the city, 9:4 Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: as
for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him, 9:5 Come, eat of
my bread, and drink of the wine which I have mingled.

9:6 Forsake the foolish, and live; and go in the way of understanding.

9:7 He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame: and he that
rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot.

9:8 Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee: rebuke a wise man, and
he will love thee.

9:9 Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser: teach a
just man, and he will increase in learning.

9:10 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: and the
knowledge of the holy is understanding.

9:11 For by me thy days shall be multiplied, and the years of thy life
shall be increased.

9:12 If thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself: but if thou
scornest, thou alone shalt bear it.

9:13 A foolish woman is clamorous: she is simple, and knoweth nothing.

9:14 For she sitteth at the door of her house, on a seat in the high
places of the city, 9:15 To call passengers who go right on their
ways: 9:16 Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: and as for him
that wanteth understanding, she saith to him, 9:17 Stolen waters are
sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.

9:18 But he knoweth not that the dead are there; and that her guests
are in the depths of hell.

10:1 The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a
foolish son is the heaviness of his mother.

10:2 Treasures of wickedness profit nothing: but righteousness
delivereth from death.

10:3 The LORD will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish: but
he casteth away the substance of the wicked.

10:4 He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand: but the hand of
the diligent maketh rich.

10:5 He that gathereth in summer is a wise son: but he that sleepeth
in harvest is a son that causeth shame.

10:6 Blessings are upon the head of the just: but violence covereth
the mouth of the wicked.

10:7 The memory of the just is blessed: but the name of the wicked
shall rot.

10:8 The wise in heart will receive commandments: but a prating fool
shall fall.

10:9 He that walketh uprightly walketh surely: but he that perverteth
his ways shall be known.

10:10 He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow: but a prating fool
shall fall.

10:11 The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence
covereth the mouth of the wicked.

10:12 Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins.

10:13 In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found: but
a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding.

10:14 Wise men lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the foolish is near
destruction.

10:15 The rich man's wealth is his strong city: the destruction of the
poor is their poverty.

10:16 The labour of the righteous tendeth to life: the fruit of the
wicked to sin.

10:17 He is in the way of life that keepeth instruction: but he that
refuseth reproof erreth.

10:18 He that hideth hatred with lying lips, and he that uttereth a
slander, is a fool.

10:19 In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin: but he that
refraineth his lips is wise.

10:20 The tongue of the just is as choice silver: the heart of the
wicked is little worth.

10:21 The lips of the righteous feed many: but fools die for want of
wisdom.

10:22 The blessing of the LORD, it maketh rich, and he addeth no
sorrow with it.

10:23 It is as sport to a fool to do mischief: but a man of
understanding hath wisdom.

10:24 The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him: but the desire
of the righteous shall be granted.

10:25 As the whirlwind passeth, so is the wicked no more: but the
righteous is an everlasting foundation.

10:26 As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the
sluggard to them that send him.

10:27 The fear of the LORD prolongeth days: but the years of the
wicked shall be shortened.

10:28 The hope of the righteous shall be gladness: but the expectation
of the wicked shall perish.

10:29 The way of the LORD is strength to the upright: but destruction
shall be to the workers of iniquity.

10:30 The righteous shall never be removed: but the wicked shall not
inhabit the earth.

10:31 The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom: but the froward
tongue shall be cut out.

10:32 The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable: but the mouth
of the wicked speaketh frowardness.

11:1 A false balance is abomination to the LORD: but a just weight is
his delight.

11:2 When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is
wisdom.

11:3 The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the
perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.

11:4 Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness
delivereth from death.

11:5 The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the
wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.

11:6 The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but
transgressors shall be taken in their own naughtiness.

11:7 When a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish: and the
hope of unjust men perisheth.

11:8 The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh
in his stead.

11:9 An hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbour: but through
knowledge shall the just be delivered.

11:10 When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and
when the wicked perish, there is shouting.

11:11 By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is
overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.

11:12 He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man of
understanding holdeth his peace.

11:13 A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful
spirit concealeth the matter.

11:14 Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of
counsellors there is safety.

11:15 He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: and he that
hateth suretiship is sure.

11:16 A gracious woman retaineth honour: and strong men retain riches.

11:17 The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but he that is
cruel troubleth his own flesh.

11:18 The wicked worketh a deceitful work: but to him that soweth
righteousness shall be a sure reward.

11:19 As righteousness tendeth to life: so he that pursueth evil
pursueth it to his own death.

11:20 They that are of a froward heart are abomination to the LORD:
but such as are upright in their way are his delight.

11:21 Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished:
but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.

11:22 As a jewel of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman which
is without discretion.

11:23 The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of
the wicked is wrath.

11:24 There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that
withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty.

11:25 The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall
be watered also himself.

11:26 He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: but
blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.

11:27 He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: but he that
seeketh mischief, it shall come unto him.

11:28 He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; but the righteous
shall flourish as a branch.

11:29 He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the
fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.

11:30 The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that
winneth souls is wise.

11:31 Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much
more the wicked and the sinner.

12:1 Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth
reproof is brutish.

12:2 A good man obtaineth favour of the LORD: but a man of wicked
devices will he condemn.

12:3 A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the
righteous shall not be moved.

12:4 A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh
ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.

12:5 The thoughts of the righteous are right: but the counsels of the
wicked are deceit.

12:6 The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: but the
mouth of the upright shall deliver them.

12:7 The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the
righteous shall stand.

12:8 A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is
of a perverse heart shall be despised.

12:9 He that is despised, and hath a servant, is better than he that
honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.

12:10 A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender
mercies of the wicked are cruel.

12:11 He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he
that followeth vain persons is void of understanding.

12:12 The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the
righteous yieldeth fruit.

12:13 The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: but the
just shall come out of trouble.

12:14 A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth:
and the recompence of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him.

12:15 The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that
hearkeneth unto counsel is wise.

12:16 A fool's wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth
shame.

12:17 He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false
witness deceit.

12:18 There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the
tongue of the wise is health.

12:19 The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying
tongue is but for a moment.

12:20 Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the
counsellors of peace is joy.

12:21 There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be
filled with mischief.

12:22 Lying lips are abomination to the LORD: but they that deal truly
are his delight.

12:23 A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools
proclaimeth foolishness.

12:24 The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall
be under tribute.

12:25 Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good word
maketh it glad.

12:26 The righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: but the way
of the wicked seduceth them.

12:27 The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but
the substance of a diligent man is precious.

12:28 In the way of righteousness is life: and in the pathway thereof
there is no death.

13:1 A wise son heareth his father's instruction: but a scorner
heareth not rebuke.

13:2 A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of
the transgressors shall eat violence.

13:3 He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth
wide his lips shall have destruction.

13:4 The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul
of the diligent shall be made fat.

13:5 A righteous man hateth lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, and
cometh to shame.

13:6 Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way: but
wickedness overthroweth the sinner.

13:7 There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: there is
that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.

13:8 The ransom of a man's life are his riches: but the poor heareth
not rebuke.

13:9 The light of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked
shall be put out.

13:10 Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is
wisdom.

13:11 Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that
gathereth by labour shall increase.

13:12 Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh,
it is a tree of life.

13:13 Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: but he that feareth
the commandment shall be rewarded.

13:14 The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the
snares of death.

13:15 Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors
is hard.

13:16 Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open
his folly.

13:17 A wicked messenger falleth into mischief: but a faithful
ambassador is health.

13:18 Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction: but
he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.

13:19 The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but it is
abomination to fools to depart from evil.

13:20 He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of
fools shall be destroyed.

13:21 Evil pursueth sinners: but to the righteous good shall be
repayed.

13:22 A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children:
and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just.

13:23 Much food is in the tillage of the poor: but there is that is
destroyed for want of judgment.

13:24 He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him
chasteneth him betimes.

13:25 The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: but the
belly of the wicked shall want.

14:1 Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it
down with her hands.

14:2 He that walketh in his uprightness feareth the LORD: but he that
is perverse in his ways despiseth him.

14:3 In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride: but the lips of
the wise shall preserve them.

14:4 Where no oxen are, the crib is clean: but much increase is by the
strength of the ox.

14:5 A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter
lies.

14:6 A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not: but knowledge is
easy unto him that understandeth.

14:7 Go from the presence of a foolish man, when thou perceivest not
in him the lips of knowledge.

14:8 The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way: but the folly
of fools is deceit.

14:9 Fools make a mock at sin: but among the righteous there is
favour.

14:10 The heart knoweth his own bitterness; and a stranger doth not
intermeddle with his joy.

14:11 The house of the wicked shall be overthrown: but the tabernacle
of the upright shall flourish.

14:12 There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end
thereof are the ways of death.

14:13 Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; and the end of that
mirth is heaviness.

14:14 The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways: and a
good man shall be satisfied from himself.

14:15 The simple believeth every word: but the prudent man looketh
well to his going.

14:16 A wise man feareth, and departeth from evil: but the fool
rageth, and is confident.

14:17 He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly: and a man of wicked
devices is hated.

14:18 The simple inherit folly: but the prudent are crowned with
knowledge.

14:19 The evil bow before the good; and the wicked at the gates of the
righteous.

14:20 The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but the rich hath
many friends.

14:21 He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth: but he that hath mercy
on the poor, happy is he.

14:22 Do they not err that devise evil? but mercy and truth shall be
to them that devise good.

14:23 In all labour there is profit: but the talk of the lips tendeth
only to penury.

14:24 The crown of the wise is their riches: but the foolishness of
fools is folly.

14:25 A true witness delivereth souls: but a deceitful witness
speaketh lies.

14:26 In the fear of the LORD is strong confidence: and his children
shall have a place of refuge.

14:27 The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, to depart from the
snares of death.

14:28 In the multitude of people is the king's honour: but in the want
of people is the destruction of the prince.

14:29 He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding: but he that
is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.

14:30 A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness
of the bones.

14:31 He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker: but he that
honoureth him hath mercy on the poor.

14:32 The wicked is driven away in his wickedness: but the righteous
hath hope in his death.

14:33 Wisdom resteth in the heart of him that hath understanding: but
that which is in the midst of fools is made known.

14:34 Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any
people.

14:35 The king's favour is toward a wise servant: but his wrath is
against him that causeth shame.

15:1 A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up
anger.
